content/en/docs/components/multi-tenancy/overview.md, before:

+++
title = "Introduction to Multi-user Isolation"
description = "What does multi-user isolation mean?"
weight = 10
                    
+++
{{% alert title="Out of date" color="warning" %}}
This guide contains outdated information pertaining to Kubeflow 1.0. This guide
needs to be updated for Kubeflow 1.1.
{{% /alert %}}

{{% stable-status %}}

In a production environment, it is often necessary to share the same pool
of resources across different teams and users. These different users need
a reliable way to isolate and protect their own resources, without accidentally
viewing or changing each other's resources.

Kubeflow {{% kf-latest-version %}} supports multi-user isolation, which applies 
access control over namespaces and user-created
resources in a deployment. This feature provides the users with the
convenience of clutter-free browsing of notebooks, training jobs, serving
deployments and other resources. The isolation mechanisms also prevent
accidental deletion/modification of resources of other users in the deployment.

Note that the isolation support in Kubeflow doesn't provide any hard security
guarantees against malicious attempts by users to infiltrate other user's
profiles.

## Key concepts

**Administrator**: An administrator is someone who creates and maintains the Kubeflow cluster.
This person has the permission to grant access permissions to others.

**User**: A user is someone who has access to some set of resources in the cluster. A user
needs to be granted access permissions by the administrator.

**Profile**: A profile is a grouping of all Kubernetes clusters owned by a user.

## Current integration and limitations

The Jupyter notebooks service is the first application to be fully integrated with
multi-user isolation. Access to the notebooks and the creation of notebooks is 
controlled by the profile access policies set by the administrator or the owners
of the profiles. Resources created by the notebooks (for example, training jobs and
deployments) also inherit the same access.

Metadata and Pipelines or any other applications currently don't have full
fledged integration with isolation, though they do have access to the user
identity through the headers of the incoming requests. It's up to the individual
applications to use the available identity and isolation features
in a way that makes sense for each application.

On Google Cloud Platform (GCP), the authentication and identify token is generated by GCP IAM and carried
through the requests as a JWT Token in the request header. Other cloud providers can have a
similar header to provide identity information.

For on-premises deployments, Kubeflow uses Dex as a federated OpenID connection
provider and can be integrated with LDAP or Active Directory to provide authentication
and identity services.

## Next steps

* Understand the [detailed design](/docs/components/multi-tenancy/design/) of Kubeflow's multi-user isolation feature.
* Learn [how to use multi-user isolation and profiles](/docs/components/multi-tenancy/getting-started/).

Commit message:

doc: multi-user isolation overview page - pipelines supported

content/en/docs/components/multi-tenancy/overview.md, after:

+++
title = "Introduction to Multi-user Isolation"
description = "What does multi-user isolation mean?"
weight = 10
                    
+++

{{% stable-status %}}

In a production environment, it is often necessary to share the same pool
of resources across different teams and users. These different users need
a reliable way to isolate and protect their own resources, without accidentally
viewing or changing each other's resources.

Kubeflow {{% kf-latest-version %}} supports multi-user isolation, which applies 
access control over namespaces and user-created
resources in a deployment. This feature provides the users with the
convenience of clutter-free browsing of notebooks, training jobs, serving
deployments and other resources. The isolation mechanisms also prevent
accidental deletion/modification of resources of other users in the deployment.

Note that the isolation support in Kubeflow doesn't provide any hard security
guarantees against malicious attempts by users to infiltrate other user's
profiles.

## Key concepts

**Administrator**: An administrator is someone who creates and maintains the Kubeflow cluster.
This person has the permission to grant access permissions to others.

**User**: A user is someone who has access to some set of resources in the cluster. A user
needs to be granted access permissions by the administrator.

**Profile**: A profile is a grouping of all Kubernetes clusters owned by a user.

## Current integration and limitations

The Jupyter notebooks service is the first application to be fully integrated with
multi-user isolation. Access to the notebooks and the creation of notebooks is 
controlled by the profile access policies set by the administrator or the owners
of the profiles. Resources created by the notebooks (for example, training jobs and
deployments) also inherit the same access.

Pipelines is partially integrated with multi-user isolation starting from Kubeflow v1.1. You
can find more information on [Multi-user Isolation for Pipelines](https://www.kubeflow.org/docs/pipelines/multi-user/).

Metadata or any other applications currently don't have full
fledged integration with isolation, though they do have access to the user
identity through the headers of the incoming requests. It's up to the individual
applications to use the available identity and isolation features
in a way that makes sense for each application.

On Google Cloud Platform (GCP), the authentication and identify token is generated by GCP IAM and carried
through the requests as a JWT Token in the request header. Other cloud providers can have a
similar header to provide identity information.

For on-premises deployments, Kubeflow uses Dex as a federated OpenID connection
provider and can be integrated with LDAP or Active Directory to provide authentication
and identity services.

## Next steps

* Understand the [detailed design](/docs/components/multi-tenancy/design/) of Kubeflow's multi-user isolation feature.
* Learn [how to use multi-user isolation and profiles](/docs/components/multi-tenancy/getting-started/).
