content/en/docs/started/kubeflow-overview.md, before:

+++
title = "Kubeflow Overview"
description = "How Kubeflow helps you organize your ML workflow"
weight = 10
+++

<!--
Note for authors: The source of the diagrams is held in Google Slides decks,
in the "Doc diagrams" folder in the public Kubeflow shared drive.
-->

This guide introduces Kubeflow as a platform for developing and deploying a
machine learning (ML) system.

Kubeflow is a platform for data scientists who want to build and experiment with
ML pipelines. Kubeflow is also for ML engineers and operational teams who want
to deploy ML systems to various environments for development, testing, and
production-level serving.

## Conceptual overview

Kubeflow is *the ML toolkit for Kubernetes*.
The following diagram shows Kubeflow as a platform for arranging the
components of your ML system on top of Kubernetes:

<img src="/docs/images/kubeflow-overview-platform-diagram.svg" 
  alt="An architectural overview of Kubeflow on Kubernetes"
  class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">

Kubeflow builds on [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) as a system for 
deploying, scaling, and managing complex systems.

Using the Kubeflow configuration interfaces (see [below](#interfaces)) you can
specify the ML tools required for your workflow. Then you can deploy the 
workflow to various clouds, local, and on-premises platforms for experimentation and 
for production use.

## Introducing the ML workflow

When you develop and deploy an ML system, the ML workflow typically consists of 
several stages. Developing an ML system is an iterative process. 
You need to evaluate the output of various stages of the ML workflow, and apply
changes to the model and parameters when necessary to ensure the model keeps 
producing the results you need.

For the sake of simplicity, the following diagram
shows the workflow stages in sequence. The arrow at the end of the workflow
points back into the flow to indicate the iterative nature of the process:

<img src="/docs/images/kubeflow-overview-workflow-diagram-1.svg" 
  alt="A typical machine learning workflow"
  class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">

Looking at the stages in more detail:

* In the experimental phase, you develop your model based on initial
  assumptions, and test and update the model iteratively to produce the
  results you're looking for:

  * Identify the problem you want the ML system to solve.
  * Collect and analyze the data you need to train your ML model.
  * Choose an ML framework and algorithm, and code the initial version of your 
    model.
  * Experiment with the data and with training your model.
  * Tune the model hyperparameters to ensure the most efficient processing and the
    most accurate results possible.

* In the production phase, you deploy a system that performs the following 
  processes:

  * Transform the data into the format that your training system needs.
    To ensure that your model behaves consistently during training and 
    prediction, the transformation process must be the same in the experimental 
    and production phases.
  * Train the ML model.
  * Serve the model for online prediction or for running in batch mode.
  * Monitor the model's performance, and feed the results into your processes
    for tuning or retraining the model.

## Kubeflow components in the ML workflow

The next diagram adds Kubeflow to the workflow, showing which Kubeflow
components are useful at each stage:

<img src="/docs/images/kubeflow-overview-workflow-diagram-2.svg" 
  alt="Where Kubeflow fits into a typical machine learning workflow"
  class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">

To learn more, read the following guides to the Kubeflow components:

* Kubeflow includes services for spawning and managing 
  [Jupyter notebooks](/docs/notebooks/). Use notebooks for interactive data 
  science and experimenting with ML workflows.

* [Kubeflow Pipelines](/docs/pipelines/pipelines-overview/) is a platform for 
  building, deploying, and managing multi-step ML workflows based on Docker 
  containers.

* Kubeflow offers several [components](/docs/components/) that you can use
  to build your ML training, hyperparameter tuning, and serving workloads across
  multiple platforms.

## Example of a specific ML workflow

The following diagram shows a simple example of a specific ML workflow that you
can use to train and serve a model trained on the MNIST dataset:

<img src="/docs/images/kubeflow-gcp-e2e-tutorial-simplified.svg" 
  alt="ML workflow for training and serving an MNIST model"
  class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">

For details of the workflow and to run the system yourself, see the 
[end-to-end tutorial for Kubeflow on GCP](/docs/gke/gcp-e2e/).

<a id="interfaces"></a>
## Kubeflow interfaces

This section introduces the interfaces that you can use to interact with
Kubeflow and to build and run your ML workflows on Kubeflow.

### Kubeflow user interface (UI) 

The Kubeflow UI looks like this:

<img src="/docs/images/central-ui.png" 
  alt="The Kubeflow UI"
  class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">

The UI offers a central dashboard that you can use to access the components
of your Kubeflow deployment. Read 
[how to access the central dashboard](/docs/components/central-dash/overview/).

### Kubeflow command line interface (CLI)

**Kfctl** is the Kubeflow CLI that you can use to install and configure 
Kubeflow. Read about kfctl in the guide to 
[configuring Kubeflow](/docs/other-guides/kustomize/).

The Kubernetes CLI, **kubectl**, is useful for running commands against your
Kubeflow cluster. You can use kubectl to deploy applications, inspect and manage
cluster resources, and view logs. Read about kubectl in the [Kubernetes 
documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/).

## Kubeflow APIs and SDKs

Various components of Kubeflow offer APIs and Python SDKs. See the following
sets of reference documentation:

* [Kubeflow reference docs](/docs/reference/) for guides to the Kubeflow
  Metadata API and SDK, the PyTorchJob CRD, and the TFJob CRD.
* [Pipelines reference docs](/docs/pipelines/reference/) for the Kubeflow
  Pipelines API and SDK, including the Kubeflow Pipelines domain-specific
  language (DSL).
* [Fairing reference docs](/docs/fairing/reference/) for the Kubeflow Fairing
  SDK.

## Next steps

See how to [install Kubeflow](/docs/started/getting-started/) depending on
your chosen environment (local, cloud, or on-premises).

Commit message:

Added outdated banner to non-index docs unchanged in last 30d
This was originally PR #2066. @RFMVasconcelos is out this week and
the PR is blocked by a merge conflict so I rebased it in order
to get it merged.

Related to: #1984

Author:    jlewi <jeremy@lewi.us>

content/en/docs/started/kubeflow-overview.md, after:

+++
title = "Kubeflow Overview"
description = "How Kubeflow helps you organize your ML workflow"
weight = 10
                    
+++
{{% alert title="Out of date" color="warning" %}}
This guide contains outdated information pertaining to Kubeflow 1.0. This guide
needs to be updated for Kubeflow 1.1.
{{% /alert %}}

<!--
Note for authors: The source of the diagrams is held in Google Slides decks,
in the "Doc diagrams" folder in the public Kubeflow shared drive.
-->

This guide introduces Kubeflow as a platform for developing and deploying a
machine learning (ML) system.

Kubeflow is a platform for data scientists who want to build and experiment with
ML pipelines. Kubeflow is also for ML engineers and operational teams who want
to deploy ML systems to various environments for development, testing, and
production-level serving.

## Conceptual overview

Kubeflow is *the ML toolkit for Kubernetes*.
The following diagram shows Kubeflow as a platform for arranging the
components of your ML system on top of Kubernetes:

<img src="/docs/images/kubeflow-overview-platform-diagram.svg" 
  alt="An architectural overview of Kubeflow on Kubernetes"
  class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">

Kubeflow builds on [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) as a system for 
deploying, scaling, and managing complex systems.

Using the Kubeflow configuration interfaces (see [below](#interfaces)) you can
specify the ML tools required for your workflow. Then you can deploy the 
workflow to various clouds, local, and on-premises platforms for experimentation and 
for production use.

## Introducing the ML workflow

When you develop and deploy an ML system, the ML workflow typically consists of 
several stages. Developing an ML system is an iterative process. 
You need to evaluate the output of various stages of the ML workflow, and apply
changes to the model and parameters when necessary to ensure the model keeps 
producing the results you need.

For the sake of simplicity, the following diagram
shows the workflow stages in sequence. The arrow at the end of the workflow
points back into the flow to indicate the iterative nature of the process:

<img src="/docs/images/kubeflow-overview-workflow-diagram-1.svg" 
  alt="A typical machine learning workflow"
  class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">

Looking at the stages in more detail:

* In the experimental phase, you develop your model based on initial
  assumptions, and test and update the model iteratively to produce the
  results you're looking for:

  * Identify the problem you want the ML system to solve.
  * Collect and analyze the data you need to train your ML model.
  * Choose an ML framework and algorithm, and code the initial version of your 
    model.
  * Experiment with the data and with training your model.
  * Tune the model hyperparameters to ensure the most efficient processing and the
    most accurate results possible.

* In the production phase, you deploy a system that performs the following 
  processes:

  * Transform the data into the format that your training system needs.
    To ensure that your model behaves consistently during training and 
    prediction, the transformation process must be the same in the experimental 
    and production phases.
  * Train the ML model.
  * Serve the model for online prediction or for running in batch mode.
  * Monitor the model's performance, and feed the results into your processes
    for tuning or retraining the model.

## Kubeflow components in the ML workflow

The next diagram adds Kubeflow to the workflow, showing which Kubeflow
components are useful at each stage:

<img src="/docs/images/kubeflow-overview-workflow-diagram-2.svg" 
  alt="Where Kubeflow fits into a typical machine learning workflow"
  class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">

To learn more, read the following guides to the Kubeflow components:

* Kubeflow includes services for spawning and managing 
  [Jupyter notebooks](/docs/notebooks/). Use notebooks for interactive data 
  science and experimenting with ML workflows.

* [Kubeflow Pipelines](/docs/pipelines/pipelines-overview/) is a platform for 
  building, deploying, and managing multi-step ML workflows based on Docker 
  containers.

* Kubeflow offers several [components](/docs/components/) that you can use
  to build your ML training, hyperparameter tuning, and serving workloads across
  multiple platforms.

## Example of a specific ML workflow

The following diagram shows a simple example of a specific ML workflow that you
can use to train and serve a model trained on the MNIST dataset:

<img src="/docs/images/kubeflow-gcp-e2e-tutorial-simplified.svg" 
  alt="ML workflow for training and serving an MNIST model"
  class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">

For details of the workflow and to run the system yourself, see the 
[end-to-end tutorial for Kubeflow on GCP](/docs/gke/gcp-e2e/).

<a id="interfaces"></a>
## Kubeflow interfaces

This section introduces the interfaces that you can use to interact with
Kubeflow and to build and run your ML workflows on Kubeflow.

### Kubeflow user interface (UI) 

The Kubeflow UI looks like this:

<img src="/docs/images/central-ui.png" 
  alt="The Kubeflow UI"
  class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">

The UI offers a central dashboard that you can use to access the components
of your Kubeflow deployment. Read 
[how to access the central dashboard](/docs/components/central-dash/overview/).

### Kubeflow command line interface (CLI)

**Kfctl** is the Kubeflow CLI that you can use to install and configure 
Kubeflow. Read about kfctl in the guide to 
[configuring Kubeflow](/docs/other-guides/kustomize/).

The Kubernetes CLI, **kubectl**, is useful for running commands against your
Kubeflow cluster. You can use kubectl to deploy applications, inspect and manage
cluster resources, and view logs. Read about kubectl in the [Kubernetes 
documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/).

## Kubeflow APIs and SDKs

Various components of Kubeflow offer APIs and Python SDKs. See the following
sets of reference documentation:

* [Kubeflow reference docs](/docs/reference/) for guides to the Kubeflow
  Metadata API and SDK, the PyTorchJob CRD, and the TFJob CRD.
* [Pipelines reference docs](/docs/pipelines/reference/) for the Kubeflow
  Pipelines API and SDK, including the Kubeflow Pipelines domain-specific
  language (DSL).
* [Fairing reference docs](/docs/fairing/reference/) for the Kubeflow Fairing
  SDK.

## Next steps

See how to [install Kubeflow](/docs/started/getting-started/) depending on
your chosen environment (local, cloud, or on-premises).
