content/en/docs/gke/anthos.md, before:

+++
title = "Kubeflow On-premises on Anthos GKE"
description = "Running Kubeflow across on-premises and cloud environments with Anthos"
weight = 12
                    
+++
{{% alert title="Out of date" color="warning" %}}
This guide contains outdated information pertaining to Kubeflow 1.0. This guide
needs to be updated for Kubeflow 1.1.
{{% /alert %}}

[Anthos](https://cloud.google.com/anthos) is a hybrid and multi-cloud 
application platform developed and supported by Google. Anthos is built on
open source technologies, including Kubernetes, Istio, and Knative.

Using Anthos, you can create a consistent setup across your on-premises and 
cloud environments, helping you to automate policy and security at scale.

If you're interested in running Kubeflow on Anthos GKE, email the Kubeflow team
at 
[google-kubeflow-support@google.com](mailto:google-kubeflow-support@google.com).

## Next steps

While waiting for a response from the support team, you may like to [deploy
Kubeflow on GKE](/docs/gke/deploy/).

Commit message:

Update the Anthos docs to point to the relevant GitHub issue.

content/en/docs/gke/anthos.md, after:

+++
title = "Kubeflow On-premises on Anthos GKE"
description = "Running Kubeflow across on-premises and cloud environments with Anthos"
weight = 12
                    
+++
{{% alert title="Out of date" color="warning" %}}
This guide contains outdated information pertaining to Kubeflow 1.0. This guide
needs to be updated for Kubeflow 1.1.
{{% /alert %}}

[Anthos](https://cloud.google.com/anthos) is a hybrid and multi-cloud 
application platform developed and supported by Google. Anthos is built on
open source technologies, including Kubernetes, Istio, and Knative.

Using Anthos, you can create a consistent setup across your on-premises and 
cloud environments, helping you to automate policy and security at scale.

Kubeflow on GKE On Prem is a work in progress. To track progess you can subscribe
to the GitHub issue [kubeflow/gcp-blueprints#138](https://github.com/kubeflow/gcp-blueprints/issues/138).

## Next steps

While waiting for a response from the support team, you may like to [deploy
Kubeflow on GKE](/docs/gke/deploy/).
