content/en/docs/gke/cloud-filestore.md, before:

+++
title = "Using Cloud Filestore"
description = "Using Cloud Filestore with Kubeflow"
weight = 60
+++

This guide describes how to set up and use Cloud Filestore with Kubeflow on 
Google Cloud Platform (GCP).

## About Cloud Filestore

[Cloud File Store](https://cloud.google.com/filestore/docs/) is a fully managed NFS offering.
Cloud Filestore is very useful for creating a shared filesystem that can be mounted into pods such as Jupyter.

## Before you start

This guide assumes you have already set up Kubeflow on GCP. If you haven't done
so, follow the guide to [deploying Kubeflow on GCP](/docs/gke/deploy/).

This guide assumes the following settings: 

* The `${KF_DIR}` environment variable contains the path to
  your Kubeflow application directory, which holds your Kubeflow configuration 
  files. For example, `/opt/my-kubeflow/`.

  ```
  export KF_DIR=<path to your Kubeflow application directory>
  ``` 

* The `${CONFIG_FILE}` environment variable contains the path to your 
  Kubeflow configuration file.

  ```
  export CONFIG_FILE=${KF_DIR}/{{% config-file-gcp-iap %}}
  ```

* The `${KF_NAME}` environment variable contains the name of your Kubeflow 
  deployment. You can find the name in your `${CONFIG_FILE}` 
  configuration file, as the value for the `metadata.name` key.

  ```
  export KF_NAME=<the name of your Kubeflow deployment>
  ```

* The `${PROJECT}` environment variable contains the ID of your GCP project. 
  You can find the project ID in 
  your `${CONFIG_FILE}` configuraiton file, as the value for the `project` key.

  ```
  export PROJECT=<your GCP project ID>
  ```

* The `${ZONE}` environment variable contains the GCP zone where your
  Kubeflow resources are deployed.

  ```
  export ZONE=<your GCP zone>
  ```

* For further background about the above settings, see the guide to
  [deploying Kubeflow with the CLI](/docs/gke/deploy/deploy-cli).

## Create a Cloud Filestore instance

Follow these instructions to create a Cloud Filestore instance; if you already have a Cloud Filestore instance you want to
use you can skip this section.

Copy the Cloud Filestore deployment manager configs to the `gcp_config` directory:

```
cd ${KF_DIR}
cp .cache/manifests/manifests-${VERSION}/deployment/gke/deployment_manager_configs/gcfs.yaml \
   ./gcp_config/
```

Edit `gcfs.yaml` to match your desired configuration:

  * Set zone
  * Set name
  * Set the value of parent to include your project e.g.

    ```
    projects/${PROJECT}/locations/${ZONE}
    ```

Using [yq](https://github.com/kislyuk/yq):

```
cd ${KF_DIR}
. env.sh
yq -r ".resources[0].properties.instanceId=\"${KF_NAME}\"" gcp_config/gcfs.yaml > gcp_config/gcfs.yaml.new
mv gcp_config/gcfs.yaml.new gcp_config/gcfs.yaml
```

Apply the changes:

<!-- 
  TODO(https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/issues/3265): When this is fixed we
  should be able to just rerun kfctl apply platform rather than running gcloud
-->

```
cd ${KF_DIR}/gcp_config
gcloud --project=${PROJECT} deployment-manager deployments create ${KF_NAME}-nfs --config=gcfs.yaml
```

If you get an error **legacy networks are not supported** follow the instructions
in the [troubleshooting guide](/docs/other-guides/troubleshooting).

## Create a PV and PVC to mount the filestore.

Create a PVC for Cloud Filestore instance.

Run the following command to get the ip address of the cloud file store instance

```
gcloud --project=${PROJECT} filestore instances list
```

The output will be something like the following and give you the IP address of your instance.

```
INSTANCE_NAME          ZONE        TIER      CAPACITY_GB  FILE_SHARE_NAME  IP_ADDRESS     STATE  CREATE_TIME
mykubeflow-nfs  us-east1-d  STANDARD  1024         kubeflow         10.20.148.194  READY  2019-05-15T01:23:53

```

Now follow the instructions [Accessing Fileshares from Google Kubernetes](https://cloud.google.com/filestore/docs/accessing-fileshares) to create a PV and PVC.

## Using the PVC

### With Jupyter

In the UI to create a jupyter notebook you can specify the PVC as an extra data volume.

Commit message:

Added outdated banner to non-index docs unchanged in last 30d (#2072)
This was originally PR #2066. @RFMVasconcelos is out this week and
the PR is blocked by a merge conflict so I rebased it in order
to get it merged.

Related to: #1984

Author:    jlewi <jeremy@lewi.us>

content/en/docs/gke/cloud-filestore.md, after:

+++
title = "Using Cloud Filestore"
description = "Using Cloud Filestore with Kubeflow"
weight = 60
                    
+++
{{% alert title="Out of date" color="warning" %}}
This guide contains outdated information pertaining to Kubeflow 1.0. This guide
needs to be updated for Kubeflow 1.1.
{{% /alert %}}

This guide describes how to set up and use Cloud Filestore with Kubeflow on 
Google Cloud Platform (GCP).

## About Cloud Filestore

[Cloud File Store](https://cloud.google.com/filestore/docs/) is a fully managed NFS offering.
Cloud Filestore is very useful for creating a shared filesystem that can be mounted into pods such as Jupyter.

## Before you start

This guide assumes you have already set up Kubeflow on GCP. If you haven't done
so, follow the guide to [deploying Kubeflow on GCP](/docs/gke/deploy/).

This guide assumes the following settings: 

* The `${KF_DIR}` environment variable contains the path to
  your Kubeflow application directory, which holds your Kubeflow configuration 
  files. For example, `/opt/my-kubeflow/`.

  ```
  export KF_DIR=<path to your Kubeflow application directory>
  ``` 

* The `${CONFIG_FILE}` environment variable contains the path to your 
  Kubeflow configuration file.

  ```
  export CONFIG_FILE=${KF_DIR}/{{% config-file-gcp-iap %}}
  ```

* The `${KF_NAME}` environment variable contains the name of your Kubeflow 
  deployment. You can find the name in your `${CONFIG_FILE}` 
  configuration file, as the value for the `metadata.name` key.

  ```
  export KF_NAME=<the name of your Kubeflow deployment>
  ```

* The `${PROJECT}` environment variable contains the ID of your GCP project. 
  You can find the project ID in 
  your `${CONFIG_FILE}` configuraiton file, as the value for the `project` key.

  ```
  export PROJECT=<your GCP project ID>
  ```

* The `${ZONE}` environment variable contains the GCP zone where your
  Kubeflow resources are deployed.

  ```
  export ZONE=<your GCP zone>
  ```

* For further background about the above settings, see the guide to
  [deploying Kubeflow with the CLI](/docs/gke/deploy/deploy-cli).

## Create a Cloud Filestore instance

Follow these instructions to create a Cloud Filestore instance; if you already have a Cloud Filestore instance you want to
use you can skip this section.

Copy the Cloud Filestore deployment manager configs to the `gcp_config` directory:

```
cd ${KF_DIR}
cp .cache/manifests/manifests-${VERSION}/deployment/gke/deployment_manager_configs/gcfs.yaml \
   ./gcp_config/
```

Edit `gcfs.yaml` to match your desired configuration:

  * Set zone
  * Set name
  * Set the value of parent to include your project e.g.

    ```
    projects/${PROJECT}/locations/${ZONE}
    ```

Using [yq](https://github.com/kislyuk/yq):

```
cd ${KF_DIR}
. env.sh
yq -r ".resources[0].properties.instanceId=\"${KF_NAME}\"" gcp_config/gcfs.yaml > gcp_config/gcfs.yaml.new
mv gcp_config/gcfs.yaml.new gcp_config/gcfs.yaml
```

Apply the changes:

<!-- 
  TODO(https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/issues/3265): When this is fixed we
  should be able to just rerun kfctl apply platform rather than running gcloud
-->

```
cd ${KF_DIR}/gcp_config
gcloud --project=${PROJECT} deployment-manager deployments create ${KF_NAME}-nfs --config=gcfs.yaml
```

If you get an error **legacy networks are not supported** follow the instructions
in the [troubleshooting guide](/docs/other-guides/troubleshooting).

## Create a PV and PVC to mount the filestore.

Create a PVC for Cloud Filestore instance.

Run the following command to get the ip address of the cloud file store instance

```
gcloud --project=${PROJECT} filestore instances list
```

The output will be something like the following and give you the IP address of your instance.

```
INSTANCE_NAME          ZONE        TIER      CAPACITY_GB  FILE_SHARE_NAME  IP_ADDRESS     STATE  CREATE_TIME
mykubeflow-nfs  us-east1-d  STANDARD  1024         kubeflow         10.20.148.194  READY  2019-05-15T01:23:53

```

Now follow the instructions [Accessing Fileshares from Google Kubernetes](https://cloud.google.com/filestore/docs/accessing-fileshares) to create a PV and PVC.

## Using the PVC

### With Jupyter

In the UI to create a jupyter notebook you can specify the PVC as an extra data volume.
