content/docs/reference/version-policy.md, before:

+++
title = "Kubeflow Versioning Policies"
description = "Versioning policies and status of Kubeflow applications and other components"
weight = 05
+++

This page describes the Kubeflow versioning policies and provides a version 
matrix for Kubeflow applications and other components.

## Kubeflow versioning

Kubeflow version numbers are of the form **vX.Y.Z**, where **X** is the major 
version, **Y** is the minor version, and **Z** is the patch version. The
versioning policy follows the [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) 
terminology.

The version name **vX.Y.Z** refers to the version (git tag) of the 
[kfctl release](https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/releases). 
If the version number includes an appendix **-rcN**, where **N** is a
number, the appendix indicates a *release candidate*, which is a pre-release 
version of an upcoming release.

Examples of Kubeflow version numbers:

* `v0.7.0`
* `v0.7.0-rc8`
* `v1.0.0`
* `v1.0.1`

<a id="app-versioning"></a>
## Application versioning and stable status

Starting from the release of Kubeflow v1.0, the Kubeflow community 
attributes *stable status* to those applications and components that 
meet a defined level of stability, supportability, and upgradability.

When you deploy Kubeflow to a Kubernetes cluster, your deployment includes a
number of applications. Application versioning is independent of Kubeflow 
versioning. An application moves to version 1.0 when the application meets 
certain 
[criteria](https://github.com/kubeflow/community/blob/master/guidelines/application_requirements.md) 
in terms of stability, upgradability, and the provision of services such as 
logging and monitoring. 

When an application moves to version 1.0, the Kubeflow community will 
decide whether to include that version of the application in the next major 
or minor release of Kubeflow.

<a id="application-matrix"></a>
## Kubeflow application matrix

The following table shows the stable status of the applications that
may be deployed to your Kubernetes cluster when you deploy Kubeflow. 
The applications are specified in the 
[manifest](https://github.com/kubeflow/manifests/tree/master/kfdef) that you 
use to deploy Kubeflow. You can use the information below to decide which of 
the applications you should deploy to your production system.

* **Stable** means that the application has reached application 
  version 1.0 or later, and complies with the criteria defined <a href="#app-versioning">above</a> to reach version 1.0.
* **Beta** means that the application is working towards a version 1.0 release
  and is expected to meet the criteria for version 1.0 soon.
* **Experimental** means that the application is in the early phases of 
  development and/or integration into Kubeflow.

The application version number in the table reflects the version in the
manifest at the time when Kubeflow {{% kf-latest-version %}} was
released. This is therefore the default version of the application that you
receive when you deploy Kubeflow {{% kf-latest-version %}}. Some applications 
may provide later versions that you can choose to install into your Kubeflow  
deployment. If you need a later version of a specific application, refer to the
 documentation for that application.

<div class="table-responsive">
  <table class="table table-bordered">
    <thead class="thead-light">
      <tr>
        <th>Application</th>
        <th>Status in Kubeflow {{% kf-latest-version %}}</th>
        <th>App version in Kubeflow {{% kf-latest-version %}}</th>
      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td><a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/tree/master/components/centraldashboard">Central 
        dashboard - Kubeflow UI</a> (<a href="/docs/other-guides/accessing-uis/">docs</a>)</td>
        <td>Stable</td>
        <td>1.0</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/chainer-operator">Chainer 
        operator</a> (<a href="/docs/components/training/chainer/">docs</a>)</td>
        <td>Experimental</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/katib">Hyperparameter tuning
        - Katib</a> 
          (<a href="/docs/components/hyperparameter-tuning/hyperparameter/">docs</a>)</td>
        <td>Beta</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving">KFServing</a>
          (<a href="/docs/components/serving/kfserving/">docs</a>)</td>
        <td>Beta</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/metadata">Metadata</a>
          (<a href="/docs/components/misc/metadata//">docs</a>)</td>
        <td>Beta</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/mpi-operator">MPI operator</a>
          (<a href="/docs/components/training/mpi/">docs</a>)</td>
        <td>Experimental</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/mxnet-operator">MXNet operator</a>
          (<a href="/docs/components/training/mxnet/">docs</a>)</td>
        <td>Experimental</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/tree/master/components/jupyter-web-app">Notebook 
        web app</a> (<a href="/docs/notebooks/">docs</a>)</td>
        <td>Stable</td>
        <td>1.0</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/tree/master/components/notebook-controller">Notebook
        controller</a> (<a href="/docs/notebooks/">docs</a>)</td>
        <td>Stable</td>
        <td>1.0</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/pipelines">Pipelines</a>
          (<a href="/docs/pipelines/pipelines-quickstart/">docs</a>)</td>
        <td>Beta</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/tree/master/components/profile-controller">Profile 
        Controller</a> (<a href="/docs/other-guides/multi-user-overview/">docs</a>)</td>
        <td>Stable</td>
        <td>1.0</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/pytorch-operator">PyTorch operator</a> (<a href="/docs/components/training/pytorch/">docs</a>)</td>
        <td>Stable</td>
        <td>1.0</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>PyTorch serving 
          (<a href="/docs/components/serving/pytorchserving/">docs</a>)</td>
        <td>Experimental</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/batch-predict">TensorFlow 
          batch prediction</a>
          (<a href="/docs/components/serving/tfbatchpredict/">docs</a>)</td>
        <td>Experimental</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>TensorFlow serving (<a href="/docs/components/serving/tfserving_new/">docs</a>)</td>
        <td>Experimental</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/tf-operator">TFJob operator</a>
          (<a href="/docs/components/training/tftraining/">docs</a>)</td>
        <td>Stable</td>
        <td>1.0</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/xgboost-operator">XGBoost operator</a></td>
        <td>Experimental</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>

<a id="sdk-matrix"></a>
## Kubeflow SDKs and CLIs

Alongside Kubeflow {{% kf-latest-version %}}, you may want to use 
one of the following Kubeflow SDKs and command-line interfaces 
(CLIs).

<div class="table-responsive">
  <table class="table table-bordered">
    <thead class="thead-light">
      <tr>
        <th>SDK / CLI</th>
        <th>Status in Kubeflow {{% kf-latest-version %}}</th>
        <th>SDK/CLI version</th>
      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td><a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/fairing">Fairing</a> (<a href="/docs/fairing/reference/">docs</a>)</td>
        <td>Beta</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/kfctl">kfctl</a> (<a href="/docs/other-guides/kustomize/">docs</a>)</td>
        <td>Stable</td>
        <td>1.0</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><a href="https://kubeflow-pipelines.readthedocs.io/en/latest/">Kubeflow Pipelines SDK</a> (<a href="/docs/pipelines/sdk/">docs</a>)</td>
        <td>Beta</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>

## Support levels

The expectations for supportability and the types of support available depend
on the stable status of each application or other component.
For more information, see the support details page.

Commit message:

Clarified that kubectl doesn't discriminate based on app status.

content/docs/reference/version-policy.md, after:

+++
title = "Kubeflow Versioning Policies"
description = "Versioning policies and status of Kubeflow applications and other components"
weight = 05
+++

This page describes the Kubeflow versioning policies and provides a version 
matrix for Kubeflow applications and other components.

## Kubeflow versioning

Kubeflow version numbers are of the form **vX.Y.Z**, where **X** is the major 
version, **Y** is the minor version, and **Z** is the patch version. The
versioning policy follows the [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) 
terminology.

The version name **vX.Y.Z** refers to the version (git tag) of the 
[kfctl release](https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/releases). 
If the version number includes an appendix **-rcN**, where **N** is a
number, the appendix indicates a *release candidate*, which is a pre-release 
version of an upcoming release.

Examples of Kubeflow version numbers:

* `v0.7.0`
* `v0.7.0-rc8`
* `v1.0.0`
* `v1.0.1`

<a id="app-versioning"></a>
## Application versioning and stable status

Starting from the release of Kubeflow v1.0, the Kubeflow community 
attributes *stable status* to those applications and components that 
meet a defined level of stability, supportability, and upgradability.

When you deploy Kubeflow to a Kubernetes cluster, your deployment includes a
number of applications. Application versioning is independent of Kubeflow 
versioning. An application moves to version 1.0 when the application meets 
certain 
[criteria](https://github.com/kubeflow/community/blob/master/guidelines/application_requirements.md) 
in terms of stability, upgradability, and the provision of services such as 
logging and monitoring. 

When an application moves to version 1.0, the Kubeflow community will 
decide whether to mark that version of the application as *stable* in the next 
major or minor release of Kubeflow.

<a id="application-matrix"></a>
## Kubeflow application matrix

The following table shows the status (stable, beta, or experimental) of the 
applications that may be deployed to your Kubernetes cluster when you deploy 
Kubeflow. The applications and their versions are specified in the 
[manifest](https://github.com/kubeflow/manifests/tree/master/kfdef) that you 
use to deploy Kubeflow. (The kfctl deployment tool does not discriminate against 
an application based on its status.) You can use the information below to decide 
which of the applications you should deploy to your production system, and
adjust the manifest accordingly.

Application status indicators for Kubeflow:

* **Stable** means that the application has reached application 
  version 1.0 or later, and complies with the criteria defined <a href="#app-versioning">above</a> to reach version 1.0.
* **Beta** means that the application is working towards a version 1.0 release
  and is expected to meet the criteria for version 1.0 soon.
* **Experimental** means that the application is in the early phases of 
  development and/or integration into Kubeflow.

The application version number in the table reflects the application version in
the manifest at the time when Kubeflow {{% kf-latest-version %}} was
released. This is therefore the default version of the application that you
receive when you deploy Kubeflow {{% kf-latest-version %}}. Some applications 
may release later versions that you can choose to install into your Kubeflow  
deployment. If you need a later version of a specific application, refer to the
documentation for that application.

<div class="table-responsive">
  <table class="table table-bordered">
    <thead class="thead-light">
      <tr>
        <th>Application</th>
        <th>Status in Kubeflow {{% kf-latest-version %}}</th>
        <th>App version in Kubeflow {{% kf-latest-version %}}</th>
      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td><a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/tree/master/components/centraldashboard">Central 
        dashboard - Kubeflow UI</a> (<a href="/docs/other-guides/accessing-uis/">docs</a>)</td>
        <td>Stable</td>
        <td>1.0</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/chainer-operator">Chainer 
        operator</a> (<a href="/docs/components/training/chainer/">docs</a>)</td>
        <td>Experimental</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/katib">Hyperparameter tuning
        - Katib</a> 
          (<a href="/docs/components/hyperparameter-tuning/hyperparameter/">docs</a>)</td>
        <td>Beta</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving">KFServing</a>
          (<a href="/docs/components/serving/kfserving/">docs</a>)</td>
        <td>Beta</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/metadata">Metadata</a>
          (<a href="/docs/components/misc/metadata//">docs</a>)</td>
        <td>Beta</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/mpi-operator">MPI operator</a>
          (<a href="/docs/components/training/mpi/">docs</a>)</td>
        <td>Experimental</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/mxnet-operator">MXNet operator</a>
          (<a href="/docs/components/training/mxnet/">docs</a>)</td>
        <td>Experimental</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/tree/master/components/jupyter-web-app">Notebook 
        web app</a> (<a href="/docs/notebooks/">docs</a>)</td>
        <td>Stable</td>
        <td>1.0</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/tree/master/components/notebook-controller">Notebook
        controller</a> (<a href="/docs/notebooks/">docs</a>)</td>
        <td>Stable</td>
        <td>1.0</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/pipelines">Pipelines</a>
          (<a href="/docs/pipelines/pipelines-quickstart/">docs</a>)</td>
        <td>Beta</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/tree/master/components/profile-controller">Profile 
        Controller</a> (<a href="/docs/other-guides/multi-user-overview/">docs</a>)</td>
        <td>Stable</td>
        <td>1.0</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/pytorch-operator">PyTorch operator</a> (<a href="/docs/components/training/pytorch/">docs</a>)</td>
        <td>Stable</td>
        <td>1.0</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>PyTorch serving 
          (<a href="/docs/components/serving/pytorchserving/">docs</a>)</td>
        <td>Experimental</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/batch-predict">TensorFlow 
          batch prediction</a>
          (<a href="/docs/components/serving/tfbatchpredict/">docs</a>)</td>
        <td>Experimental</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>TensorFlow serving (<a href="/docs/components/serving/tfserving_new/">docs</a>)</td>
        <td>Experimental</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/tf-operator">TFJob operator</a>
          (<a href="/docs/components/training/tftraining/">docs</a>)</td>
        <td>Stable</td>
        <td>1.0</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/xgboost-operator">XGBoost operator</a></td>
        <td>Experimental</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>

<a id="sdk-matrix"></a>
## Kubeflow SDKs and CLIs

Alongside Kubeflow {{% kf-latest-version %}}, you may want to use 
one of the following Kubeflow SDKs and command-line interfaces 
(CLIs).

<div class="table-responsive">
  <table class="table table-bordered">
    <thead class="thead-light">
      <tr>
        <th>SDK / CLI</th>
        <th>Status in Kubeflow {{% kf-latest-version %}}</th>
        <th>SDK/CLI version</th>
      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td><a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/fairing">Fairing</a> (<a href="/docs/fairing/reference/">docs</a>)</td>
        <td>Beta</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/kfctl">kfctl</a> (<a href="/docs/other-guides/kustomize/">docs</a>)</td>
        <td>Stable</td>
        <td>1.0</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><a href="https://kubeflow-pipelines.readthedocs.io/en/latest/">Kubeflow Pipelines SDK</a> (<a href="/docs/pipelines/sdk/">docs</a>)</td>
        <td>Beta</td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>

## Support levels

The expectations for supportability and the types of support available depend
on the stable status of each application or other component.
For more information, see the support details page.
