content/en/docs/started/workstation/getting-started-linux.md, before:

+++
title = "Kubeflow on Linux"
description = "Install Kubeflow on Linux"
weight = 10
                    
+++
{{% alert title="Out of date" color="warning" %}}
This guide contains outdated information pertaining to Kubeflow 1.0. This guide
needs to be updated for Kubeflow 1.1.
{{% /alert %}}

For Linux systems you have options for servers (physical or virtual) and desktops.
The server options apply to the desktop as well.

## Linux server

For Linux servers you can install Kubeflow natively. This is perfect for
Linux hosts and virtual machines, such as VMs in OpenStack, VMware or public clouds like
GCP, AWS and Azure.

### MicroK8s

[MicroK8s](https://microk8s.io) runs natively on most Linux distributions. 

Follow the installation guide for [Kubeflow with MicroK8s](/docs/started/workstation/getting-started-multipass/) to set up MicroK8s and enable Kubeflow.

## Linux desktop

### Kubeflow appliance

A Kubeflow appliance is a virtual machine that has Kubeflow already installed. Once the
necessary supporting software is installed no further installation steps are required.

#### MiniKF

MiniKF is a predefined virtual machine that installs onto VirtualBox through Vagrant.
The only following applications are required to use MiniKF:

- Install [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html)
- Install [Virtual Box](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads)

The full set of instructions are available on the
[MiniKF getting started](/docs/started/workstation/getting-started-minikf/) page.

### Linux appliance

A Linux appliance is a virtual machine that holds the linux operating system. From there
you have complete choice over Kubernetes and Kubeflow, which offers the greatest degree
of flexibility. You only need to install a single application to follow this path:

- Install [Multipass](https://multipass.run/#install)

The instructions on [Multipass and MicroK8s getting started](/docs/started/workstation/getting-started-multipass/)
page will complete this path.

### Kubernetes appliance

A Kubernetes appliance is a virtual machine that has a
Kubernetes cluster already installed. After starting the virtual machine, you need
to install Kubeflow. This option gives you full control over your Kubeflow setup.

- Install [Minikube](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/learning-environment/minikube/)

Follow the instructions on [deploying with MiniKube on 
Linux](/docs/started/workstation/minikube-linux/) to complete this path.

Commit message:

Documentation steps for Kind,K3s and K3s on WSL2 (#2056)
* Update getting_started with_kind

Updated with kind instructions

* Update documenation for kind,k3s and k3s on WSL2

* Update localcluster-deployment.md

* Update localcluster-deployment.md

Updated based on @8bitmp3  suggestions.

* Update localcluster-deployment.md

Updated based on @Bobgy comments

* Update localcluster-deployment.md

Fixed docs as per  8bitmp3 suggestions to improve the content from a UX and UI perspective

* Update localcluster-deployment.md

Fixed based on @8bitmp3  suggestion (btw THANKS again that teached me so many things around writing correct documentation!)

* Refactor Kubeflow Standalone local cluster deployment on kind, k3s, k3s on WSL

- Refactoring: rewording, formatting, linting

* Updated link and removed duplicate

Updated links into overview.md and removed duplicate kubectl references in localcluster-deployment.md

Co-authored-by: 8bitmp3 <19637339+8bitmp3@users.noreply.github.com>

content/en/docs/started/workstation/getting-started-linux.md, after:

+++
title = "Kubeflow on Linux"
description = "Install Kubeflow on Linux"
weight = 10
                    
+++
{{% alert title="Out of date" color="warning" %}}
This guide contains outdated information pertaining to Kubeflow 1.0. This guide
needs to be updated for Kubeflow 1.1.
{{% /alert %}}

For Linux systems you have options for servers (physical or virtual) and desktops.
The server options apply to the desktop as well.

## Linux server

For Linux servers you can install Kubeflow natively. This is perfect for
Linux hosts and virtual machines, such as VMs in OpenStack, VMware or public clouds like
GCP, AWS and Azure.

### MicroK8s

[MicroK8s](https://microk8s.io) runs natively on most Linux distributions. 

Follow the installation guide for [Kubeflow with MicroK8s](/docs/started/workstation/getting-started-multipass/) to set up MicroK8s and enable Kubeflow.

## Linux desktop

### Kubeflow appliance

A Kubeflow appliance is a virtual machine that has Kubeflow already installed. Once the
necessary supporting software is installed no further installation steps are required.

#### MiniKF

MiniKF is a predefined virtual machine that installs onto VirtualBox through Vagrant.
The only following applications are required to use MiniKF:

- Install [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html)
- Install [Virtual Box](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads)

The full set of instructions are available on the
[MiniKF getting started](/docs/started/workstation/getting-started-minikf/) page.

#### Kind

[kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/) is a tool for running local Kubernetes clusters using Docker container "nodes".
kind was primarily designed for testing Kubernetes itself, but may be used for local development or CI.

The full set of instructions are available on the
[kind getting started](/docs/other-guides/virtual-dev/getting-started-kind/) page.

### Linux appliance

A Linux appliance is a virtual machine that holds the linux operating system. From there
you have complete choice over Kubernetes and Kubeflow, which offers the greatest degree
of flexibility. You only need to install a single application to follow this path:

- Install [Multipass](https://multipass.run/#install)

The instructions on [Multipass and MicroK8s getting started](/docs/started/workstation/getting-started-multipass/)
page will complete this path.

### Kubernetes appliance

A Kubernetes appliance is a virtual machine that has a
Kubernetes cluster already installed. After starting the virtual machine, you need
to install Kubeflow. This option gives you full control over your Kubeflow setup.

- Install [Minikube](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/learning-environment/minikube/)

Follow the instructions on [deploying with MiniKube on 
Linux](/docs/started/workstation/minikube-linux/) to complete this path.
