content/en/docs/started/workstation/minikube-linux.md, before:

+++
title = "Deploy using MiniKube on Linux"
description = "Install Kubeflow on Minikube on Linux"
weight = 50
+++

This guide covers the installation of Minikube and Kubeflow in a single node Ubuntu system. Minikube provides a single node Kubernetes cluster that is good for development and testing purposes.

The guide covers the following topics:

- installation of docker-community edition (docker-ce), kubectl, and Minikube
- installation of Kubeflow
- launch of Kubeflow central dashboard
- execution of an MNIST on-prem notebook

## Prerequisites

 - Ubuntu 18 machine with min 8 cores, 16GB RAM, 250GB storage
 - Root privileges on a Ubuntu machine


## Installation of Docker CE, kubectl, and Minikube

Minikube provides a no-driver mode based on Docker without requiring a hypervisor.

### Install Docker CE

Run the following commands to install Docker CE:
```
apt-get update
apt-get install -y apt-transport-https ca-certificates curl software-properties-common
curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | apt-key add -
add-apt-repository \
   "deb [arch=amd64] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu \
   $(lsb_release -cs) \
   stable"
apt-get update
apt-get install docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io
```

To verify your installation, run:
```
docker run hello-world
```

The expected output looks like this:
```
Unable to find image 'hello-world:latest' locally
latest: Pulling from library/hello-world
1b930d010525: Pull complete                                                                                        Digest: sha256:fc6a51919cfeb2e6763f62b6d9e8815acbf7cd2e476ea353743570610737b752
Status: Downloaded newer image for hello-world:latest

Hello from Docker!
This message shows that your installation appears to be working correctly.
```

### Install kubectl

`kubectl` is a Kubernetes command-line tool that allows you to run commands against Kubernetes clusters. The following instructions install version 1.15 of kubectl. If you are looking for a specific version, see the [kubectl installation guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/). 
```
curl -LO https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/v1.15.0/bin/linux/amd64/kubectl
chmod +x ./kubectl
mv ./kubectl /usr/local/bin/kubectl
```

### Install Minikube

The following command installs Minikube v1.2.0. If you are looking for a specific version, see the [Minikube releases](https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube/releases).
```
curl -Lo minikube https://storage.googleapis.com/minikube/releases/v1.2.0/minikube-linux-amd64
```

Move to the `/usr/local/bin` directory:
```
chmod +x minikube
cp minikube /usr/local/bin/
rm minikube
```

### Start Minikube

The following command starts Minikube with 6 CPUs, 12288 memory, 120G disk size: 
```
minikube start --vm-driver=none --cpus 6 --memory 12288 --disk-size=120g --extra-config=apiserver.authorization-mode=RBAC --extra-config=kubelet.resolv-conf=/run/systemd/resolve/resolv.conf --extra-config kubeadm.ignore-preflight-errors=SystemVerification
```

## Installation of Kubeflow

Follow these steps to install Kubeflow:

1. Download the kfctl {{% kf-latest-version %}} release from the
  [Kubeflow releases 
  page](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfctl/releases/tag/{{% kf-latest-version %}}).

1. Unpack the tar ball:
      ```
      tar -xvf kfctl_{{% kf-latest-version %}}_<platform>.tar.gz
      ```
1. Run the following commands to set up and deploy Kubeflow. The code below includes an optional command to add the binary kfctl to your path. If you don’t add the binary to your path, you must use the full path to the kfctl binary each time you run it.

    ```
    # The following command is optional, to make kfctl binary easier to use.
    export PATH=$PATH:<path to where kfctl was unpacked>

    # Set KF_NAME to the name of your Kubeflow deployment. This also becomes the
    # name of the directory containing your configuration.
    # For example, your deployment name can be 'my-kubeflow' or 'kf-test'.
    export KF_NAME=<your choice of name for the Kubeflow deployment>

    # Set the path to the base directory where you want to store one or more 
    # Kubeflow deployments. For example, /opt/.
    # Then set the Kubeflow application directory for this deployment.
    export BASE_DIR=<path to a base directory>
    export KF_DIR=${BASE_DIR}/${KF_NAME}

    # Set the configuration file to use, such as the file specified below:
    export CONFIG_URI="{{% config-uri-k8s-istio %}}"

    # Generate and deploy Kubeflow:
    mkdir -p ${KF_DIR}
    cd ${KF_DIR}
    kfctl apply -V -f ${CONFIG_URI}
    ```

    * **${KF_NAME}** - The name of your Kubeflow deployment.
      If you want a custom deployment name, specify that name here.
      For example,  `my-kubeflow` or `kf-test`.
      The value of KF_NAME must consist of lower case alphanumeric characters or
      '-', and must start and end with an alphanumeric character.
      The value of this variable cannot be greater than 25 characters. It must
      contain just a name, not a directory path.
      This value also becomes the name of the directory where your Kubeflow 
      configurations are stored, that is, the Kubeflow application directory. 

    * **${KF_DIR}** - The full path to your Kubeflow application directory.
  
The following example installs Kubeflow v1.0.0 under the `/root/kubeflow/v1.0` directory:

```
mkdir -p /root/kubeflow/v1.0
cd /root/kubeflow/v1.0
wget https://github.com/kubeflow/kfctl/releases/download/v1.0/kfctl_v1.0-0-g94c35cf_linux.tar.gz

tar -xvf kfctl_v1.0-0-g94c35cf_linux.tar.gz			
export PATH=$PATH:/root/kubeflow/v1.0
export KF_NAME=my-kubeflow
export BASE_DIR=/root/kubeflow/v1.0
export KF_DIR=${BASE_DIR}/${KF_NAME}
export CONFIG_URI="{{% config-uri-k8s-istio %}}" 

mkdir -p ${KF_DIR}
cd ${KF_DIR}
kfctl apply -V -f ${CONFIG_URI}
```

When the installation finishes, run the following command to see whether all the pods are in running status. Depending on your machine’s capability, it may take a few minutes to reach full running status:
```
kubectl get pod -n kubeflow
```

Expected output:
```
NAME                                                           READY   STATUS      RESTARTS   AGE
admission-webhook-bootstrap-stateful-set-0                     1/1     Running     0          10m
admission-webhook-deployment-64cb96ddbf-w7ptd                  1/1     Running     0        9m33s
application-controller-stateful-set-0                          1/1     Running     0          13m
argo-ui-778676df64-kjw6s                                       1/1     Running     0          10m
centraldashboard-7dd7dd685d-hvll8                              1/1     Running     0          10m
jupyter-web-app-deployment-89789fd5-cjkwf                      1/1     Running     0          10m
katib-controller-6b789b6cb5-kgzv8                              1/1     Running     1          10m
katib-db-manager-64f548b47c-sszv9                              1/1     Running     3        9m59s
katib-mysql-57884cb488-d4qt2                                   1/1     Running     0        9m59s
katib-ui-5c5cc6bd77-2kqvc                                      1/1     Running     0        9m59s
kfserving-controller-manager-0                                 2/2     Running     1          10m
metacontroller-0                                               1/1     Running     0          10m
metadata-db-76c9f78f77-7r8vb                                   0/1     Running     1          10m
metadata-deployment-674fdd976b-hzmzx                           0/1     Running     0          10m
metadata-envoy-deployment-5688989bd6-rqtrk                     1/1     Running     0          10m
metadata-grpc-deployment-5579bdc87b-xx9fk                      1/1     Running     6          10m
metadata-ui-9b8cd699d-scs9d                                    1/1     Running     0          10m
minio-755ff748b-lxsb6                                          1/1     Running     0        9m55s
ml-pipeline-79b4f85cbc-8tjff                                   1/1     Running     0        9m55s
ml-pipeline-ml-pipeline-visualizationserver-5fdffdc5bf-zsngc   1/1     Running     0        9m42s
ml-pipeline-persistenceagent-645cb66874-b465h                  1/1     Running     0        9m54s
ml-pipeline-scheduledworkflow-6c978b6b85-cffng                 1/1     Running     0        9m42s
ml-pipeline-ui-6995b7bccf-s642q                                1/1     Running     0        9m45s
ml-pipeline-viewer-controller-deployment-8554dc7b9f-vgw9r      1/1     Running     0        9m44s
mysql-598bc897dc-lsmqc                                         1/1     Running     0        9m54s
notebook-controller-deployment-7db57b9ccf-vw9vw                1/1     Running     0          10m
profiles-deployment-5d87dd4f87-7gfrj                           2/2     Running     0        9m41s
pytorch-operator-5fd5f94bdd-kfgvp                              1/1     Running     2          10m
seldon-controller-manager-679fc777cd-4n229                     1/1     Running     0        9m39s
spark-operatorcrd-cleanup-kxr7g                                0/2     Completed   0          10m
spark-operatorsparkoperator-c7b64b87f-cfptj                    1/1     Running     0          10m
spartakus-volunteer-6b767c8d6-4v6hc                            1/1     Running     0          10m
tensorboard-6544748d94-8ctk8                                   1/1     Running     0          10m
tf-job-operator-7d7c8fb8bb-xz5pw                               1/1     Running     1          10m
workflow-controller-945c84565-57c72                            1/1     Running     0          10m
``` 

## Launch of Kubeflow central dashboard

You can access the Kubeflow dashboard using the istio-ingressgateway service. To see your settings for the istio-ingressgateway service, execute the following commands:
```
export INGRESS_HOST=$(minikube ip)
export INGRESS_PORT=$(kubectl -n istio-system get service istio-ingressgateway -o jsonpath='{.spec.ports[?(@.name=="http2")].nodePort}')
```

Then you can access the Kubeflow dashboard in a web browser: 
```
http://<INGRESS_HOST>:<INGRESS_PORT>
```

## Execution of an MNIST on-prem notebook

The [MNIST on-prem notebook](https://github.com/kubeflow/fairing/blob/master/examples/mnist/mnist_e2e_on_prem.ipynb) builds a Docker image, launches a TFJob to train a model, and creates an InferenceService (KFServing) to deploy the trained model.

### Prerequisites

#### Step 1: Set up Python environment

You need Python 3.5 or later: 
```
apt-get update; apt-get install -y wget bzip2
wget https://repo.continuum.io/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
bash Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh 
```

Re-open your current shell.

Create a Python 3.7 environment named `mlpipeline` (or any name that you prefer):
```
conda create --name mlpipeline python=3.7
conda init
conda activate mlpipeline 
```

#### Step 2: Install Jupyter Notebooks

Run the following command to install Jupyter Notebooks:
```
pip install --upgrade pip
pip install jupyter
```

You can find the full instructions in the [Jupyter documentation](https://jupyter.readthedocs.io/en/latest/install.html).

#### Step 3: Create a Docker ID

In order to build Docker images from your notebook, you need a Docker registry to store the images.
If you don't have a Docker ID, follow the [Docker documentation](https://docs.docker.com/docker-id/) to create one.


#### Step 4: Create a namespace to run the MNIST on-prem notebook 

The following commands create a namespace called `mnist`. You can use any name you like:
```
kubectl create ns mnist
kubectl label namespace mnist serving.kubeflow.org/inferenceservice=enabled 
```

#### Step 5:  Download the MNIST on-prem notebook

Run the following commands to download the notebook:
```
cd /root/kubeflow
git clone https://github.com/kubeflow/fairing.git
```

### Launch Jupyter Notebook

Run the following commands to launch a Jupyter Notebooks server:
```
cd /root/kubeflow/fairing/examples/mnist
conda activate mlpipeline
docker login
jupyter notebook --allow-root
```

You should see output like this:
```
[I 21:17:37.473 NotebookApp] Writing notebook server cookie secret to /root/.local/share/jupyter/runtime/notebook_cookie_secret
[I 21:17:37.784 NotebookApp] Serving notebooks from local directory: /root/kubeflow/fairing/examples/mnist
[I 21:17:37.784 NotebookApp] The Jupyter Notebook is running at:
[I 21:17:37.784 NotebookApp] http://localhost:8888/?token=06cd43860cb7cb214bba30028d4b93f9f1acb08e3121ee13
[I 21:17:37.784 NotebookApp]  or http://127.0.0.1:8888/?token=06cd43860cb7cb214bba30028d4b93f9f1acb08e3121ee13
[I 21:17:37.784 NotebookApp] Use Control-C to stop this server and shut down all kernels (twice to skip confirmation).
[W 21:17:37.789 NotebookApp] No web browser found: could not locate runnable browser.
[C 21:17:37.789 NotebookApp]

    To access the notebook, open this file in a browser:
        file:///root/.local/share/jupyter/runtime/nbserver-16796-open.html
    Or copy and paste one of these URLs:
        http://localhost:8888/?token=06cd43860cb7cb214bba30028d4b93f9f1acb08e3121ee13
     or http://127.0.0.1:8888/?token=06cd43860cb7cb214bba30028d4b93f9f1acb08e3121ee13
```

See the [hints and tips section](#hints-and-tips) to learn how to access the notebook user interface (UI) remotely.

### Execute MNIST on-prem notebook

After launching Jupyter Notebooks, click **mnist_e2e_on_prem.ipynb** to open the notebook.
Take the following steps before running the notebook:

1. Under `Configure The Docker Registry For Kubeflow Fairing`, modify the cell to use your Docker ID and namespace created above.
   ```
      DOCKER_REGISTRY = 'index.docker.io/<your Docker ID>'
      my_namespace = 'mnist'
   ```

2. The MNIST on-prem notebook assumes that an NFS server is available or an existing persistent volume (PV) and persistent volume claim (PVC) is created. The NFS server is not installed with Minikube. If you don't have an NFS server and don't have any existing PV and PVC, you can instruct the notebook to create a PV and PVC by making the following change:

    Under `Create PV/PVC to Store The Exported Model`:

    1. In the first cell, comment out `nfs_server` and `nfs_path`:
    ```
    # nfs_server = '172.16.189.69'
    # nfs_path = '/opt/kubeflow/data/mnist'
    pv_name = 'mnist-e2e-pv'
    pvc_name = 'mnist-e2e-pvc'
    ```
    2. In the second cell, change the `nfs` section to `hostPath`:
  
        ```
        nfs:
          path: {nfs_path}
          server: {nfs_server}
        ```
        to

        ```
        hostPath:
          path: /mnt/data
        ```

## Hints and tips
### Access a Jupyter Notebook UI remotely

If your Jupyter Notebooks server is hosted in a Linux machine and you want to access a notebook UI from your Windows/Mac machine, you can use the following port forwarding technique:

   General syntax for port forwarding from XXXX to YYYY:
   ```
   ssh -N -f -L localhost:YYYY:localhost:XXXX remoteuser@remotehost
   ```

Below is an example of accessing a Jupyter notebook hosted in a Linux machine, remotehost.com (port 8888), in a Windows machine using port 8889. 

1. In the Windows machine, issue the following command:
    ```
    ssh -N -f -L localhost:8889:localhost:8888 root@remotehost.com
    ```
    Enter a password when prompted to access remotehost.com
   
2. In the Windows machine, open a web browser and enter the following URL:
   ```
   localhost:8889
   ```
   
## TroubleShooting
### AttributeError when create namespace object

When using Kubeflow Fairing to build a Docker image and launch a training job (part of the [notebook](https://github.com/kubeflow/fairing/blob/master/examples/mnist/mnist_e2e_on_prem.ipynb)), you may see the following error:
```
AttributeError: 'V1TFJob' object has no attribute 'openapi_types'
```

This is caused by an [existing issue in Kubernetes client API](https://github.com/kubernetes-client/python/issues/1112).

To bypass this issue, install Kubernetes Client API version 10.0.1:
```
pip install kubernetes==10.0.1
```

Commit message:

Added outdated banner to non-index docs unchanged in last 30d
This was originally PR #2066. @RFMVasconcelos is out this week and
the PR is blocked by a merge conflict so I rebased it in order
to get it merged.

Related to: #1984

Author:    jlewi <jeremy@lewi.us>

content/en/docs/started/workstation/minikube-linux.md, after:

+++
title = "Deploy using MiniKube on Linux"
description = "Install Kubeflow on Minikube on Linux"
weight = 50
                    
+++
{{% alert title="Out of date" color="warning" %}}
This guide contains outdated information pertaining to Kubeflow 1.0. This guide
needs to be updated for Kubeflow 1.1.
{{% /alert %}}

This guide covers the installation of Minikube and Kubeflow in a single node Ubuntu system. Minikube provides a single node Kubernetes cluster that is good for development and testing purposes.

The guide covers the following topics:

- installation of docker-community edition (docker-ce), kubectl, and Minikube
- installation of Kubeflow
- launch of Kubeflow central dashboard
- execution of an MNIST on-prem notebook

## Prerequisites

 - Ubuntu 18 machine with min 8 cores, 16GB RAM, 250GB storage
 - Root privileges on a Ubuntu machine


## Installation of Docker CE, kubectl, and Minikube

Minikube provides a no-driver mode based on Docker without requiring a hypervisor.

### Install Docker CE

Run the following commands to install Docker CE:
```
apt-get update
apt-get install -y apt-transport-https ca-certificates curl software-properties-common
curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | apt-key add -
add-apt-repository \
   "deb [arch=amd64] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu \
   $(lsb_release -cs) \
   stable"
apt-get update
apt-get install docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io
```

To verify your installation, run:
```
docker run hello-world
```

The expected output looks like this:
```
Unable to find image 'hello-world:latest' locally
latest: Pulling from library/hello-world
1b930d010525: Pull complete                                                                                        Digest: sha256:fc6a51919cfeb2e6763f62b6d9e8815acbf7cd2e476ea353743570610737b752
Status: Downloaded newer image for hello-world:latest

Hello from Docker!
This message shows that your installation appears to be working correctly.
```

### Install kubectl

`kubectl` is a Kubernetes command-line tool that allows you to run commands against Kubernetes clusters. The following instructions install version 1.15 of kubectl. If you are looking for a specific version, see the [kubectl installation guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/). 
```
curl -LO https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/v1.15.0/bin/linux/amd64/kubectl
chmod +x ./kubectl
mv ./kubectl /usr/local/bin/kubectl
```

### Install Minikube

The following command installs Minikube v1.2.0. If you are looking for a specific version, see the [Minikube releases](https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube/releases).
```
curl -Lo minikube https://storage.googleapis.com/minikube/releases/v1.2.0/minikube-linux-amd64
```

Move to the `/usr/local/bin` directory:
```
chmod +x minikube
cp minikube /usr/local/bin/
rm minikube
```

### Start Minikube

The following command starts Minikube with 6 CPUs, 12288 memory, 120G disk size: 
```
minikube start --vm-driver=none --cpus 6 --memory 12288 --disk-size=120g --extra-config=apiserver.authorization-mode=RBAC --extra-config=kubelet.resolv-conf=/run/systemd/resolve/resolv.conf --extra-config kubeadm.ignore-preflight-errors=SystemVerification
```

## Installation of Kubeflow

Follow these steps to install Kubeflow:

1. Download the kfctl {{% kf-latest-version %}} release from the
  [Kubeflow releases 
  page](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfctl/releases/tag/{{% kf-latest-version %}}).

1. Unpack the tar ball:
      ```
      tar -xvf kfctl_{{% kf-latest-version %}}_<platform>.tar.gz
      ```
1. Run the following commands to set up and deploy Kubeflow. The code below includes an optional command to add the binary kfctl to your path. If you don’t add the binary to your path, you must use the full path to the kfctl binary each time you run it.

    ```
    # The following command is optional, to make kfctl binary easier to use.
    export PATH=$PATH:<path to where kfctl was unpacked>

    # Set KF_NAME to the name of your Kubeflow deployment. This also becomes the
    # name of the directory containing your configuration.
    # For example, your deployment name can be 'my-kubeflow' or 'kf-test'.
    export KF_NAME=<your choice of name for the Kubeflow deployment>

    # Set the path to the base directory where you want to store one or more 
    # Kubeflow deployments. For example, /opt/.
    # Then set the Kubeflow application directory for this deployment.
    export BASE_DIR=<path to a base directory>
    export KF_DIR=${BASE_DIR}/${KF_NAME}

    # Set the configuration file to use, such as the file specified below:
    export CONFIG_URI="{{% config-uri-k8s-istio %}}"

    # Generate and deploy Kubeflow:
    mkdir -p ${KF_DIR}
    cd ${KF_DIR}
    kfctl apply -V -f ${CONFIG_URI}
    ```

    * **${KF_NAME}** - The name of your Kubeflow deployment.
      If you want a custom deployment name, specify that name here.
      For example,  `my-kubeflow` or `kf-test`.
      The value of KF_NAME must consist of lower case alphanumeric characters or
      '-', and must start and end with an alphanumeric character.
      The value of this variable cannot be greater than 25 characters. It must
      contain just a name, not a directory path.
      This value also becomes the name of the directory where your Kubeflow 
      configurations are stored, that is, the Kubeflow application directory. 

    * **${KF_DIR}** - The full path to your Kubeflow application directory.
  
The following example installs Kubeflow v1.0.0 under the `/root/kubeflow/v1.0` directory:

```
mkdir -p /root/kubeflow/v1.0
cd /root/kubeflow/v1.0
wget https://github.com/kubeflow/kfctl/releases/download/v1.0/kfctl_v1.0-0-g94c35cf_linux.tar.gz

tar -xvf kfctl_v1.0-0-g94c35cf_linux.tar.gz			
export PATH=$PATH:/root/kubeflow/v1.0
export KF_NAME=my-kubeflow
export BASE_DIR=/root/kubeflow/v1.0
export KF_DIR=${BASE_DIR}/${KF_NAME}
export CONFIG_URI="{{% config-uri-k8s-istio %}}" 

mkdir -p ${KF_DIR}
cd ${KF_DIR}
kfctl apply -V -f ${CONFIG_URI}
```

When the installation finishes, run the following command to see whether all the pods are in running status. Depending on your machine’s capability, it may take a few minutes to reach full running status:
```
kubectl get pod -n kubeflow
```

Expected output:
```
NAME                                                           READY   STATUS      RESTARTS   AGE
admission-webhook-bootstrap-stateful-set-0                     1/1     Running     0          10m
admission-webhook-deployment-64cb96ddbf-w7ptd                  1/1     Running     0        9m33s
application-controller-stateful-set-0                          1/1     Running     0          13m
argo-ui-778676df64-kjw6s                                       1/1     Running     0          10m
centraldashboard-7dd7dd685d-hvll8                              1/1     Running     0          10m
jupyter-web-app-deployment-89789fd5-cjkwf                      1/1     Running     0          10m
katib-controller-6b789b6cb5-kgzv8                              1/1     Running     1          10m
katib-db-manager-64f548b47c-sszv9                              1/1     Running     3        9m59s
katib-mysql-57884cb488-d4qt2                                   1/1     Running     0        9m59s
katib-ui-5c5cc6bd77-2kqvc                                      1/1     Running     0        9m59s
kfserving-controller-manager-0                                 2/2     Running     1          10m
metacontroller-0                                               1/1     Running     0          10m
metadata-db-76c9f78f77-7r8vb                                   0/1     Running     1          10m
metadata-deployment-674fdd976b-hzmzx                           0/1     Running     0          10m
metadata-envoy-deployment-5688989bd6-rqtrk                     1/1     Running     0          10m
metadata-grpc-deployment-5579bdc87b-xx9fk                      1/1     Running     6          10m
metadata-ui-9b8cd699d-scs9d                                    1/1     Running     0          10m
minio-755ff748b-lxsb6                                          1/1     Running     0        9m55s
ml-pipeline-79b4f85cbc-8tjff                                   1/1     Running     0        9m55s
ml-pipeline-ml-pipeline-visualizationserver-5fdffdc5bf-zsngc   1/1     Running     0        9m42s
ml-pipeline-persistenceagent-645cb66874-b465h                  1/1     Running     0        9m54s
ml-pipeline-scheduledworkflow-6c978b6b85-cffng                 1/1     Running     0        9m42s
ml-pipeline-ui-6995b7bccf-s642q                                1/1     Running     0        9m45s
ml-pipeline-viewer-controller-deployment-8554dc7b9f-vgw9r      1/1     Running     0        9m44s
mysql-598bc897dc-lsmqc                                         1/1     Running     0        9m54s
notebook-controller-deployment-7db57b9ccf-vw9vw                1/1     Running     0          10m
profiles-deployment-5d87dd4f87-7gfrj                           2/2     Running     0        9m41s
pytorch-operator-5fd5f94bdd-kfgvp                              1/1     Running     2          10m
seldon-controller-manager-679fc777cd-4n229                     1/1     Running     0        9m39s
spark-operatorcrd-cleanup-kxr7g                                0/2     Completed   0          10m
spark-operatorsparkoperator-c7b64b87f-cfptj                    1/1     Running     0          10m
spartakus-volunteer-6b767c8d6-4v6hc                            1/1     Running     0          10m
tensorboard-6544748d94-8ctk8                                   1/1     Running     0          10m
tf-job-operator-7d7c8fb8bb-xz5pw                               1/1     Running     1          10m
workflow-controller-945c84565-57c72                            1/1     Running     0          10m
``` 

## Launch of Kubeflow central dashboard

You can access the Kubeflow dashboard using the istio-ingressgateway service. To see your settings for the istio-ingressgateway service, execute the following commands:
```
export INGRESS_HOST=$(minikube ip)
export INGRESS_PORT=$(kubectl -n istio-system get service istio-ingressgateway -o jsonpath='{.spec.ports[?(@.name=="http2")].nodePort}')
```

Then you can access the Kubeflow dashboard in a web browser: 
```
http://<INGRESS_HOST>:<INGRESS_PORT>
```

## Execution of an MNIST on-prem notebook

The [MNIST on-prem notebook](https://github.com/kubeflow/fairing/blob/master/examples/mnist/mnist_e2e_on_prem.ipynb) builds a Docker image, launches a TFJob to train a model, and creates an InferenceService (KFServing) to deploy the trained model.

### Prerequisites

#### Step 1: Set up Python environment

You need Python 3.5 or later: 
```
apt-get update; apt-get install -y wget bzip2
wget https://repo.continuum.io/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
bash Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh 
```

Re-open your current shell.

Create a Python 3.7 environment named `mlpipeline` (or any name that you prefer):
```
conda create --name mlpipeline python=3.7
conda init
conda activate mlpipeline 
```

#### Step 2: Install Jupyter Notebooks

Run the following command to install Jupyter Notebooks:
```
pip install --upgrade pip
pip install jupyter
```

You can find the full instructions in the [Jupyter documentation](https://jupyter.readthedocs.io/en/latest/install.html).

#### Step 3: Create a Docker ID

In order to build Docker images from your notebook, you need a Docker registry to store the images.
If you don't have a Docker ID, follow the [Docker documentation](https://docs.docker.com/docker-id/) to create one.


#### Step 4: Create a namespace to run the MNIST on-prem notebook 

The following commands create a namespace called `mnist`. You can use any name you like:
```
kubectl create ns mnist
kubectl label namespace mnist serving.kubeflow.org/inferenceservice=enabled 
```

#### Step 5:  Download the MNIST on-prem notebook

Run the following commands to download the notebook:
```
cd /root/kubeflow
git clone https://github.com/kubeflow/fairing.git
```

### Launch Jupyter Notebook

Run the following commands to launch a Jupyter Notebooks server:
```
cd /root/kubeflow/fairing/examples/mnist
conda activate mlpipeline
docker login
jupyter notebook --allow-root
```

You should see output like this:
```
[I 21:17:37.473 NotebookApp] Writing notebook server cookie secret to /root/.local/share/jupyter/runtime/notebook_cookie_secret
[I 21:17:37.784 NotebookApp] Serving notebooks from local directory: /root/kubeflow/fairing/examples/mnist
[I 21:17:37.784 NotebookApp] The Jupyter Notebook is running at:
[I 21:17:37.784 NotebookApp] http://localhost:8888/?token=06cd43860cb7cb214bba30028d4b93f9f1acb08e3121ee13
[I 21:17:37.784 NotebookApp]  or http://127.0.0.1:8888/?token=06cd43860cb7cb214bba30028d4b93f9f1acb08e3121ee13
[I 21:17:37.784 NotebookApp] Use Control-C to stop this server and shut down all kernels (twice to skip confirmation).
[W 21:17:37.789 NotebookApp] No web browser found: could not locate runnable browser.
[C 21:17:37.789 NotebookApp]

    To access the notebook, open this file in a browser:
        file:///root/.local/share/jupyter/runtime/nbserver-16796-open.html
    Or copy and paste one of these URLs:
        http://localhost:8888/?token=06cd43860cb7cb214bba30028d4b93f9f1acb08e3121ee13
     or http://127.0.0.1:8888/?token=06cd43860cb7cb214bba30028d4b93f9f1acb08e3121ee13
```

See the [hints and tips section](#hints-and-tips) to learn how to access the notebook user interface (UI) remotely.

### Execute MNIST on-prem notebook

After launching Jupyter Notebooks, click **mnist_e2e_on_prem.ipynb** to open the notebook.
Take the following steps before running the notebook:

1. Under `Configure The Docker Registry For Kubeflow Fairing`, modify the cell to use your Docker ID and namespace created above.
   ```
      DOCKER_REGISTRY = 'index.docker.io/<your Docker ID>'
      my_namespace = 'mnist'
   ```

2. The MNIST on-prem notebook assumes that an NFS server is available or an existing persistent volume (PV) and persistent volume claim (PVC) is created. The NFS server is not installed with Minikube. If you don't have an NFS server and don't have any existing PV and PVC, you can instruct the notebook to create a PV and PVC by making the following change:

    Under `Create PV/PVC to Store The Exported Model`:

    1. In the first cell, comment out `nfs_server` and `nfs_path`:
    ```
    # nfs_server = '172.16.189.69'
    # nfs_path = '/opt/kubeflow/data/mnist'
    pv_name = 'mnist-e2e-pv'
    pvc_name = 'mnist-e2e-pvc'
    ```
    2. In the second cell, change the `nfs` section to `hostPath`:
  
        ```
        nfs:
          path: {nfs_path}
          server: {nfs_server}
        ```
        to

        ```
        hostPath:
          path: /mnt/data
        ```

## Hints and tips
### Access a Jupyter Notebook UI remotely

If your Jupyter Notebooks server is hosted in a Linux machine and you want to access a notebook UI from your Windows/Mac machine, you can use the following port forwarding technique:

   General syntax for port forwarding from XXXX to YYYY:
   ```
   ssh -N -f -L localhost:YYYY:localhost:XXXX remoteuser@remotehost
   ```

Below is an example of accessing a Jupyter notebook hosted in a Linux machine, remotehost.com (port 8888), in a Windows machine using port 8889. 

1. In the Windows machine, issue the following command:
    ```
    ssh -N -f -L localhost:8889:localhost:8888 root@remotehost.com
    ```
    Enter a password when prompted to access remotehost.com
   
2. In the Windows machine, open a web browser and enter the following URL:
   ```
   localhost:8889
   ```
   
## TroubleShooting
### AttributeError when create namespace object

When using Kubeflow Fairing to build a Docker image and launch a training job (part of the [notebook](https://github.com/kubeflow/fairing/blob/master/examples/mnist/mnist_e2e_on_prem.ipynb)), you may see the following error:
```
AttributeError: 'V1TFJob' object has no attribute 'openapi_types'
```

This is caused by an [existing issue in Kubernetes client API](https://github.com/kubernetes-client/python/issues/1112).

To bypass this issue, install Kubernetes Client API version 10.0.1:
```
pip install kubernetes==10.0.1
```
