content/en/docs/gke/deploy/delete-ui.md, before:

+++
title = "Delete using GCP Console"
description = "Deleting Kubeflow using the Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Console"
weight = 7
+++

This page shows you how to delete your Kubeflow deployment using Deployment 
Manager in the GCP Console.

**Note:** For best results you should use the 
[CLI to delete Kubeflow](/docs/gke/deploy/delete-cli/). Deleting with Deployment 
Manager as described below can orphan some resources like 
[Cloud Endpoints](https://cloud.google.com/endpoints/docs/).

To delete your Kubeflow deployment and reclaim all related resources using the
GCP Console:

1. Open the [Deployment Manager in the GCP
   Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/dm/deployments) for your project.
   Deployment Manager lists all the available deployments
   in your project. Make sure that the selected project is the same as the one
   you used for your Kubeflow deployment. 
   <img src="/docs/images/deployments.png"
    alt="Deployment Manager in GCP Console"
    class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">

1. Select the Kubeflow deployment with the deployment name you used at the
   time of creation and click the **Delete** button at the top.
   <img src="/docs/images/delete-deployment.png"
    alt="Deleting Kubeflow deployment in GCP Console"
    class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">

This action should delete any running nodes in your deployment, delete service
accounts that were created for the deployment, and reclaim all resources.

Commit message:

* Add out of date banners.

content/en/docs/gke/deploy/delete-ui.md, after:

+++
title = "Delete using GCP Console"
description = "Deleting Kubeflow using the Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Console"
weight = 7
+++

{{% alert title="Out of date" color="warning" %}}
This guide contains outdated information pertaining to Kubeflow 1.0. This guide
needs to be updated for Kubeflow 1.1.
{{% /alert %}}

This page shows you how to delete your Kubeflow deployment using Deployment 
Manager in the GCP Console.

**Note:** For best results you should use the 
[CLI to delete Kubeflow](/docs/gke/deploy/delete-cli/). Deleting with Deployment 
Manager as described below can orphan some resources like 
[Cloud Endpoints](https://cloud.google.com/endpoints/docs/).

To delete your Kubeflow deployment and reclaim all related resources using the
GCP Console:

1. Open the [Deployment Manager in the GCP
   Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/dm/deployments) for your project.
   Deployment Manager lists all the available deployments
   in your project. Make sure that the selected project is the same as the one
   you used for your Kubeflow deployment. 
   <img src="/docs/images/deployments.png"
    alt="Deployment Manager in GCP Console"
    class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">

1. Select the Kubeflow deployment with the deployment name you used at the
   time of creation and click the **Delete** button at the top.
   <img src="/docs/images/delete-deployment.png"
    alt="Deleting Kubeflow deployment in GCP Console"
    class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">

This action should delete any running nodes in your deployment, delete service
accounts that were created for the deployment, and reclaim all resources.
