content/en/docs/gke/deploy/deploy-ui.md, before:

+++
title = "Deploy using UI"
description = "Instructions for using the UI to deploy Kubeflow on Google Cloud Platform (GCP)"
weight = 3
+++

This page provides instructions for using the Kubeflow deployment web app to
deploy Kubeflow on GCP. The deployment web app currently supports
**Kubeflow {{% kf-deployment-ui-version %}}**.

For more control over your deployment, see the guide to 
[deployment using the CLI](/docs/gke/deploy/deploy-cli).
The CLI supports Kubeflow {{% kf-latest-version %}} and later versions.

## Before you start

Check the following requirements before installing Kubeflow:

1. Make sure that your GCP project meets the minimum requirements
  described in the [project setup guide](/docs/gke/deploy/project-setup/).

1. If you want to use [Cloud Identity-Aware Proxy (Cloud 
  IAP)](https://cloud.google.com/iap/docs/) for access control, follow the guide
  to [setting up OAuth credentials](/docs/gke/deploy/oauth-setup/). 
  Cloud IAP is recommended for production deployments or deployments with 
  access to sensitive data.

## Deploy Kubeflow

Here's a partial screenshot of the deployment user interface (UI):

<img src="/docs/images/kubeflow-deployment.png" 
  alt="Kubeflow deployment UI"
  class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">

Follow these steps to open the deployment UI and deploy Kubeflow on GCP:

1. Open [https://deploy.kubeflow.cloud/](https://deploy.kubeflow.cloud/#/deploy)
  in your web browser. You should see a form like the one in the above
  screenshot.
1. Sign in to your browser using an account that has the 
  [`owner` role](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/understanding-roles) 
  for your GCP project.
1. Complete the following fields on the form:

    * **Project ID:** Enter your GCP project ID.
    * **Deployment name:** Enter a short name that you can use to recognize this 
      deployment of Kubeflow.
      The maximum length for the deployment name is 25 characters.
    * **Choose how to connect to Kubeflow service:** You can choose one of the
      following options:

      * **Login with GCP IAP:** Choose this option if you want to use [Cloud 
        Identity-Aware Proxy (Cloud
        IAP)](https://cloud.google.com/iap/docs/) for access control.
        Cloud IAP is the best option for production deployments or deployments 
        with access to sensitive data. See more details [below](#cloud-iap).
      * **Login with Username Password:** **Warning: This option is deprecated in Kubeflow 1.0 and
        will be removed in the next version. We recommend switching to IAP.**

    * **GKE zone:** Enter the 
      [GCP zone](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/regions-zones/) in which 
      to create your deployment. The default is `us-central-1a`.
    * **Kubeflow version:** Choose one of the available versions of Kubeflow.
      You can see all the versions on the 
      [Kubeflow releases page](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfctl/releases/).
      If you need a version that does not show on the deployment UI, you need to
      [deploy Kubeflow using the CLI](/docs/gke/deploy/deploy-cli).
    * **Share Anonymous Usage Report:** Check this option to allow Kubeflow to
      report usage data using [Spartakus](https://github.com/kubernetes-incubator/spartakus). Spartakus does not report any personal information. The 
      default is to enable the reporting of usage data.

1. Click **Create Deployment**.

1. Watch for the deployment updates in the information box at the bottom of the 
  deployment UI.

<a id="cloud-iap"></a>
## Authenticating with Cloud IAP

This section contains details about using [Cloud 
IAP](https://cloud.google.com/iap/docs/) to control access to Kubeflow. 
Cloud IAP is the best option for production deployments or deployments with 
access to sensitive data.

1. Follow the guide to [setting up OAuth 
  credentials](/docs/gke/deploy/oauth-setup/).

1. Choose the **Login with GCP IAP** option on the Kubeflow deployment UI.

1. Enter your **IAP OAuth client ID** and **IAP OAuth client secret** into the
  corresponding fields on the deployment UI.

1. Complete the rest of the form as described above.

Kubeflow will be available at the following URI:

```
https://<deployment_name>.endpoints.<project>.cloud.goog/
```

It can take 10-15 minutes for the URI to become available. You can watch
for updates in the information box on the deployment UI. If the deployment
takes longer than expected, click **Kubeflow Service Endpoint** to try
accessing your Kubeflow URI.

<a id="basic-auth"></a>
## Authenticating with username and password

{{% alert title="No longer supported" color="warning" %}}
Basic authentication is not supported in Kubeflow v1.0.0 and will be removed entirely in the
next version. We highly recommend switching to deploying Kubeflow with IAP.
{{% /alert %}}

## Next steps

* Run a full ML workflow on Kubeflow, using the
  [end-to-end MNIST tutorial](/docs/gke/gcp-e2e/) or the
  [GitHub issue summarization 
  example](https://github.com/kubeflow/examples/tree/master/github_issue_summarization).
* See how to delete your Kubeflow deployment using the 
  [CLI](/docs/gke/deploy/delete-cli) 
  or the [GCP Console](/docs/gke/deploy/delete-ui).
* See how to [customize](/docs/gke/customizing-gke) your Kubeflow 
  deployment.
* See how to [upgrade Kubeflow](/docs/upgrading/upgrade/) and how to 
  [upgrade or reinstall a Kubeflow Pipelines 
  deployment](/docs/pipelines/upgrade/).
* [Troubleshoot](/docs/gke/troubleshooting-gke) any issues you may
  find.

Commit message:

Initial docs for blueprints
* Update the CLI instructions to explain how to deploy Kubeflow using
  blueprints.

* Add a page for setting up the management cluster

* Add banners to some of the pages that still need to be updated indicating
  the docs are out of date.
* Related to kubeflow/website#1960

content/en/docs/gke/deploy/deploy-ui.md, after:

+++
title = "Deploy using UI"
description = "Instructions for using the UI to deploy Kubeflow on Google Cloud Platform (GCP)"
weight = 3
+++

{{% alert title="Out of date" color="warning" %}}
This guide contains outdated information pertaining to Kubeflow 1.0. This guide
needs to be updated for Kubeflow 1.1.
{{% /alert %}}

This page provides instructions for using the Kubeflow deployment web app to
deploy Kubeflow on GCP. The deployment web app currently supports
**Kubeflow {{% kf-deployment-ui-version %}}**.

For more control over your deployment, see the guide to 
[deployment using the CLI](/docs/gke/deploy/deploy-cli).
The CLI supports Kubeflow {{% kf-latest-version %}} and later versions.

## Before you start

Check the following requirements before installing Kubeflow:

1. Make sure that your GCP project meets the minimum requirements
  described in the [project setup guide](/docs/gke/deploy/project-setup/).

1. If you want to use [Cloud Identity-Aware Proxy (Cloud 
  IAP)](https://cloud.google.com/iap/docs/) for access control, follow the guide
  to [setting up OAuth credentials](/docs/gke/deploy/oauth-setup/). 
  Cloud IAP is recommended for production deployments or deployments with 
  access to sensitive data.

## Deploy Kubeflow

Here's a partial screenshot of the deployment user interface (UI):

<img src="/docs/images/kubeflow-deployment.png" 
  alt="Kubeflow deployment UI"
  class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">

Follow these steps to open the deployment UI and deploy Kubeflow on GCP:

1. Open [https://deploy.kubeflow.cloud/](https://deploy.kubeflow.cloud/#/deploy)
  in your web browser. You should see a form like the one in the above
  screenshot.
1. Sign in to your browser using an account that has the 
  [`owner` role](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/understanding-roles) 
  for your GCP project.
1. Complete the following fields on the form:

    * **Project ID:** Enter your GCP project ID.
    * **Deployment name:** Enter a short name that you can use to recognize this 
      deployment of Kubeflow.
      The maximum length for the deployment name is 25 characters.
    * **Choose how to connect to Kubeflow service:** You can choose one of the
      following options:

      * **Login with GCP IAP:** Choose this option if you want to use [Cloud 
        Identity-Aware Proxy (Cloud
        IAP)](https://cloud.google.com/iap/docs/) for access control.
        Cloud IAP is the best option for production deployments or deployments 
        with access to sensitive data. See more details [below](#cloud-iap).
      * **Login with Username Password:** **Warning: This option is deprecated in Kubeflow 1.0 and
        will be removed in the next version. We recommend switching to IAP.**

    * **GKE zone:** Enter the 
      [GCP zone](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/regions-zones/) in which 
      to create your deployment. The default is `us-central-1a`.
    * **Kubeflow version:** Choose one of the available versions of Kubeflow.
      You can see all the versions on the 
      [Kubeflow releases page](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfctl/releases/).
      If you need a version that does not show on the deployment UI, you need to
      [deploy Kubeflow using the CLI](/docs/gke/deploy/deploy-cli).
    * **Share Anonymous Usage Report:** Check this option to allow Kubeflow to
      report usage data using [Spartakus](https://github.com/kubernetes-incubator/spartakus). Spartakus does not report any personal information. The 
      default is to enable the reporting of usage data.

1. Click **Create Deployment**.

1. Watch for the deployment updates in the information box at the bottom of the 
  deployment UI.

<a id="cloud-iap"></a>
## Authenticating with Cloud IAP

This section contains details about using [Cloud 
IAP](https://cloud.google.com/iap/docs/) to control access to Kubeflow. 
Cloud IAP is the best option for production deployments or deployments with 
access to sensitive data.

1. Follow the guide to [setting up OAuth 
  credentials](/docs/gke/deploy/oauth-setup/).

1. Choose the **Login with GCP IAP** option on the Kubeflow deployment UI.

1. Enter your **IAP OAuth client ID** and **IAP OAuth client secret** into the
  corresponding fields on the deployment UI.

1. Complete the rest of the form as described above.

Kubeflow will be available at the following URI:

```
https://<deployment_name>.endpoints.<project>.cloud.goog/
```

It can take 10-15 minutes for the URI to become available. You can watch
for updates in the information box on the deployment UI. If the deployment
takes longer than expected, click **Kubeflow Service Endpoint** to try
accessing your Kubeflow URI.

<a id="basic-auth"></a>
## Authenticating with username and password

{{% alert title="No longer supported" color="warning" %}}
Basic authentication is not supported in Kubeflow v1.0.0 and will be removed entirely in the
next version. We highly recommend switching to deploying Kubeflow with IAP.
{{% /alert %}}

## Next steps

* Run a full ML workflow on Kubeflow, using the
  [end-to-end MNIST tutorial](/docs/gke/gcp-e2e/) or the
  [GitHub issue summarization 
  example](https://github.com/kubeflow/examples/tree/master/github_issue_summarization).
* See how to delete your Kubeflow deployment using the 
  [CLI](/docs/gke/deploy/delete-cli) 
  or the [GCP Console](/docs/gke/deploy/delete-ui).
* See how to [customize](/docs/gke/customizing-gke) your Kubeflow 
  deployment.
* See how to [upgrade Kubeflow](/docs/upgrading/upgrade/) and how to 
  [upgrade or reinstall a Kubeflow Pipelines 
  deployment](/docs/pipelines/upgrade/).
* [Troubleshoot](/docs/gke/troubleshooting-gke) any issues you may
  find.
