content/en/docs/examples/codelabs-tutorials.md, before:

+++
title = "Codelabs, Workshops, and Tutorials"
description = "Recommended end-to-end tutorials, workshops, walk throughs, and codelabs"
weight = 20
+++

## Agile Stacks tutorials for Kubeflow Pipelines

Run Kubeflow Pipelines tutorials on AWS, GCP, or on-prem hardware using [Agile Stacks](https://www.agilestacks.com/).
Pipeline templates provide step-by-step examples for working with object storage filesystem, Kaniko, Keras, and Seldon.

* [ML Pipeline Templates: End-to-end Tutorial](https://docs.agilestacks.com/article/gkyq26pzmr-creating-an-ml-pipeline).

## Google codelabs

Google Developers Codelabs provide a guided, tutorial, hands-on coding experience.

* [Introduction to Kubeflow on GKE](https://codelabs.developers.google.com/codelabs/kubeflow-introduction/index.html): Run MNIST with Kubeflow on Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE).

* [Kubeflow Pipelines - GitHub Issue
  Summarization](https://codelabs.developers.google.com/codelabs/cloud-kubeflow-pipelines-gis/index.html): Run GitHub Issue Summarization with Kubeflow Pipelines on GKE.

* [From Notebook to Kubeflow Pipelines with MiniKF and Kale](https://codelabs.developers.google.com/codelabs/cloud-kubeflow-minikf-kale/index.html): Run an end-to-end ML workflow all the way from a Notebook to a reproducible multi-step pipeline with Kale on MiniKF.

Commit message:

Added outdated banner to non-index docs unchanged in last 30d
This was originally PR #2066. @RFMVasconcelos is out this week and
the PR is blocked by a merge conflict so I rebased it in order
to get it merged.

Related to: #1984

Author:    jlewi <jeremy@lewi.us>

content/en/docs/examples/codelabs-tutorials.md, after:

+++
title = "Codelabs, Workshops, and Tutorials"
description = "Recommended end-to-end tutorials, workshops, walk throughs, and codelabs"
weight = 20
                    
+++
{{% alert title="Out of date" color="warning" %}}
This guide contains outdated information pertaining to Kubeflow 1.0. This guide
needs to be updated for Kubeflow 1.1.
{{% /alert %}}

## Agile Stacks tutorials for Kubeflow Pipelines

Run Kubeflow Pipelines tutorials on AWS, GCP, or on-prem hardware using [Agile Stacks](https://www.agilestacks.com/).
Pipeline templates provide step-by-step examples for working with object storage filesystem, Kaniko, Keras, and Seldon.

* [ML Pipeline Templates: End-to-end Tutorial](https://docs.agilestacks.com/article/gkyq26pzmr-creating-an-ml-pipeline).

## Google codelabs

Google Developers Codelabs provide a guided, tutorial, hands-on coding experience.

* [Introduction to Kubeflow on GKE](https://codelabs.developers.google.com/codelabs/kubeflow-introduction/index.html): Run MNIST with Kubeflow on Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE).

* [Kubeflow Pipelines - GitHub Issue
  Summarization](https://codelabs.developers.google.com/codelabs/cloud-kubeflow-pipelines-gis/index.html): Run GitHub Issue Summarization with Kubeflow Pipelines on GKE.

* [From Notebook to Kubeflow Pipelines with MiniKF and Kale](https://codelabs.developers.google.com/codelabs/cloud-kubeflow-minikf-kale/index.html): Run an end-to-end ML workflow all the way from a Notebook to a reproducible multi-step pipeline with Kale on MiniKF.
