content/en/docs/examples/videos.md, before:

+++
title = "Videos"
description = "Tutorials and overviews published in video format"
weight = 40
+++

The following tutorials and overviews published in video format. Be aware that a video describes the interfaces at the time of publication of the video. Some interfaces are under rapid development and therefore may change frequently.

{{% blocks/content-item title="Keynote: Machine Learning using Kubeflow and Kubernetes"
  date="February 26, 2020"
  url_text="Watch"
  url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t5zJm1D_a04" %}}
Presenter: Arun Gupta.
{{% /blocks/content-item %}}

{{% blocks/content-item title="Enabling Kubeflow with Enterprise-Grade Auth for On-Prem Deployments"
  date="November 22, 2019"
  url_text="Watch"
  url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qyUyYLvmKHY" %}}
Presenters: Yannis Zarkadas & Krishna Durai.
{{% /blocks/content-item %}}

{{% blocks/content-item title="Supercharge Kubeflow Performance on GPU Clusters"
  date="November 22, 2019"
  url_text="Watch"
  url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UYhBaXzD0hA" %}}
Presenters: Meenakshi Kaushik and Neelima Mukiri, Cisco.
{{% /blocks/content-item %}}

{{% blocks/content-item title="Towards Continuous Computer Vision Model Improvement with Kubeflow"
  date="November 22, 2019"
  url_text="Watch"
  url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9UPnCo-LG04" %}}
Presenters: Derek Hao Hu and Yanjia Li.
{{% /blocks/content-item %}}

{{% blocks/content-item title="Measuring and Optimizing Kubeflow Clusters at Lyft"
  date="November 22, 2019"
  url_text="Watch"
  url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IKubDSIivR8" %}}
Presenters: Konstantin Gizdarski and Richard Liu.
{{% /blocks/content-item %}}

{{% blocks/content-item title="Tutorial: From Notebook to Kubeflow Pipelines: An End-to-End Data Science Workflow"
  date="November 22, 2019"
  url_text="Watch"
  url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C9rJzTzVzvQ" %}}
Presenters: Michelle Casbon, Google; Stefano Fioravanzo, Fondazione Bruno Kessler, and Ilias Katsakioris, Arrikto.
{{% /blocks/content-item %}}

{{% blocks/content-item title="Building a Medical AI with Kubernetes and Kubeflow"
  date="November 22, 2019"
  url_text="Watch"
  url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nD_GXaW_A-s" %}}
Presenter: Jeremie Vallee, Babylon Health.
{{% /blocks/content-item %}}

{{% blocks/content-item title="Panel: Enterprise-grade, On-prem Kubeflow in the Financial Sector"
  date="November 21, 2019"
  url_text="Watch"
  url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SmrW_RyQM1c" %}}
Panel: Laura Schornack, JPMorgan Chase; Jeff Fogarty, US Bank; Josh Bottum, Arrikto; and Thea Lamkin, Google.
{{% /blocks/content-item %}}

{{% blocks/content-item title="Advanced Model Inferencing Leveraging KNative, Istio & Kubeflow Serving"
  date="November 21, 2019"
  url_text="Watch"
  url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YaGASyU88dQ" %}}
Presenters: Animesh Singh and Clive Cox.
{{% /blocks/content-item %}}

{{% blocks/content-item title="Building and Managing a Centralized Kubeflow Platform at Spotify"
  date="November 21, 2019"
  url_text="Watch"
  url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m9XhsnNSMAI" %}}
Presenters: Keshi Dai and Ryan Clough, Spotify.
{{% /blocks/content-item %}}

{{% blocks/content-item title="Hyperparameter Tuning Using Kubeflow"
  date="July 5, 2019"
  url_text="Watch"
  url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OkAoiA6A2Ac" %}}
Presenters: Richard Liu, Google and Johnu George, Cisco Systems.
{{% /blocks/content-item %}}

{{% blocks/content-item title="Managing Machine Learning in Production with Kubeflow and DevOps"
  date="May 31, 2019"
  url_text="Watch"
  url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lu5zHvpQeSI" %}}
Presenters: David Aronchick, Microsoft.
{{% /blocks/content-item %}}

{{% blocks/content-item title="Machine Learning as Code: and Kubernetes with Kubeflow"
  date="December 15, 2018"
  url_text="Watch"
  url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VXrGp5er1ZE" %}}
Presenters: Jason "Jay" Smith and David Aronchick.
{{% /blocks/content-item %}}

{{% blocks/content-item title="Artificial Intelligence at Cisco with Kubeflow"
  date="October 19, 2018"
  url_text="Watch"
  url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZzPyBY42wh8" %}}
Presenter: Debo Dutta, Distinguished Engineer at Cisco.
{{% /blocks/content-item %}}

{{% blocks/content-item title="CNCF (Cloud Native Computing Foundation) channel"
  url_text="Watch"
  url="https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCvqbFHwN-nwalWPjPUKpvTA/search?query=kubeflow" %}}
A YouTube search for Kubeflow in the CNCF (Cloud Native Computing Foundation)
channel.
{{% /blocks/content-item %}}

{{% blocks/content-item title="Google Cloud Platform channel"
  url_text="Watch"
  url="https://www.youtube.com/user/googlecloudplatform/search?query=kubeflow" %}}
A YouTube search for Kubeflow in the Google Cloud Platform
channel.
{{% /blocks/content-item %}}

Commit message:

added outdated banner to non-index docs unchanged in last 30d

content/en/docs/examples/videos.md, after:

+++
title = "Videos"
description = "Tutorials and overviews published in video format"
weight = 40
                    
+++
{{% alert title="Out of date" color="warning" %}}
This guide contains outdated information pertaining to Kubeflow 1.0. This guide
needs to be updated for Kubeflow 1.1.
{{% /alert %}}

The following tutorials and overviews published in video format. Be aware that a video describes the interfaces at the time of publication of the video. Some interfaces are under rapid development and therefore may change frequently.

{{% blocks/content-item title="Keynote: Machine Learning using Kubeflow and Kubernetes"
  date="February 26, 2020"
  url_text="Watch"
  url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t5zJm1D_a04" %}}
Presenter: Arun Gupta.
{{% /blocks/content-item %}}

{{% blocks/content-item title="Enabling Kubeflow with Enterprise-Grade Auth for On-Prem Deployments"
  date="November 22, 2019"
  url_text="Watch"
  url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qyUyYLvmKHY" %}}
Presenters: Yannis Zarkadas & Krishna Durai.
{{% /blocks/content-item %}}

{{% blocks/content-item title="Supercharge Kubeflow Performance on GPU Clusters"
  date="November 22, 2019"
  url_text="Watch"
  url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UYhBaXzD0hA" %}}
Presenters: Meenakshi Kaushik and Neelima Mukiri, Cisco.
{{% /blocks/content-item %}}

{{% blocks/content-item title="Towards Continuous Computer Vision Model Improvement with Kubeflow"
  date="November 22, 2019"
  url_text="Watch"
  url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9UPnCo-LG04" %}}
Presenters: Derek Hao Hu and Yanjia Li.
{{% /blocks/content-item %}}

{{% blocks/content-item title="Measuring and Optimizing Kubeflow Clusters at Lyft"
  date="November 22, 2019"
  url_text="Watch"
  url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IKubDSIivR8" %}}
Presenters: Konstantin Gizdarski and Richard Liu.
{{% /blocks/content-item %}}

{{% blocks/content-item title="Tutorial: From Notebook to Kubeflow Pipelines: An End-to-End Data Science Workflow"
  date="November 22, 2019"
  url_text="Watch"
  url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C9rJzTzVzvQ" %}}
Presenters: Michelle Casbon, Google; Stefano Fioravanzo, Fondazione Bruno Kessler, and Ilias Katsakioris, Arrikto.
{{% /blocks/content-item %}}

{{% blocks/content-item title="Building a Medical AI with Kubernetes and Kubeflow"
  date="November 22, 2019"
  url_text="Watch"
  url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nD_GXaW_A-s" %}}
Presenter: Jeremie Vallee, Babylon Health.
{{% /blocks/content-item %}}

{{% blocks/content-item title="Panel: Enterprise-grade, On-prem Kubeflow in the Financial Sector"
  date="November 21, 2019"
  url_text="Watch"
  url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SmrW_RyQM1c" %}}
Panel: Laura Schornack, JPMorgan Chase; Jeff Fogarty, US Bank; Josh Bottum, Arrikto; and Thea Lamkin, Google.
{{% /blocks/content-item %}}

{{% blocks/content-item title="Advanced Model Inferencing Leveraging KNative, Istio & Kubeflow Serving"
  date="November 21, 2019"
  url_text="Watch"
  url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YaGASyU88dQ" %}}
Presenters: Animesh Singh and Clive Cox.
{{% /blocks/content-item %}}

{{% blocks/content-item title="Building and Managing a Centralized Kubeflow Platform at Spotify"
  date="November 21, 2019"
  url_text="Watch"
  url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m9XhsnNSMAI" %}}
Presenters: Keshi Dai and Ryan Clough, Spotify.
{{% /blocks/content-item %}}

{{% blocks/content-item title="Hyperparameter Tuning Using Kubeflow"
  date="July 5, 2019"
  url_text="Watch"
  url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OkAoiA6A2Ac" %}}
Presenters: Richard Liu, Google and Johnu George, Cisco Systems.
{{% /blocks/content-item %}}

{{% blocks/content-item title="Managing Machine Learning in Production with Kubeflow and DevOps"
  date="May 31, 2019"
  url_text="Watch"
  url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lu5zHvpQeSI" %}}
Presenters: David Aronchick, Microsoft.
{{% /blocks/content-item %}}

{{% blocks/content-item title="Machine Learning as Code: and Kubernetes with Kubeflow"
  date="December 15, 2018"
  url_text="Watch"
  url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VXrGp5er1ZE" %}}
Presenters: Jason "Jay" Smith and David Aronchick.
{{% /blocks/content-item %}}

{{% blocks/content-item title="Artificial Intelligence at Cisco with Kubeflow"
  date="October 19, 2018"
  url_text="Watch"
  url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZzPyBY42wh8" %}}
Presenter: Debo Dutta, Distinguished Engineer at Cisco.
{{% /blocks/content-item %}}

{{% blocks/content-item title="CNCF (Cloud Native Computing Foundation) channel"
  url_text="Watch"
  url="https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCvqbFHwN-nwalWPjPUKpvTA/search?query=kubeflow" %}}
A YouTube search for Kubeflow in the CNCF (Cloud Native Computing Foundation)
channel.
{{% /blocks/content-item %}}

{{% blocks/content-item title="Google Cloud Platform channel"
  url_text="Watch"
  url="https://www.youtube.com/user/googlecloudplatform/search?query=kubeflow" %}}
A YouTube search for Kubeflow in the Google Cloud Platform
channel.
{{% /blocks/content-item %}}
