+++
title = "Importer component"
description = "Use an importer component to import artifacts from remote storage"
weight = 51
+++

<!-- no index to improve relative search ranking of KFP SDK v2 docs over KFP SDK v1 v2-namepsace docs -->
{{% no-index %}}

The KFP SDK v2 provides an importer component as a pre-baked component for a specific use case: importing a machine learning from remote storage to machine learning metadata (MLMD).

Typically, the input artifact to a task is an output from an upstream task. In this case, the artifact can be easily accessed from the upstream task using `my_task.outputs['artifact_name']`. The artifact is also registered in MLMD when it is created by the upstream task.

If you wish to use an existing artifact that is not generated by a task in the current pipeline _or_ wish to use as an artifact an external file that was not generated by a pipeline at all, you can use an importer component to load an artifact from its URI.

You do not need to write an importer component; it can be imported from the `dsl` module and used directly:

```python
from kfp.v2 import dsl

@dsl.pipeline(name='pipeline-with-importer')
def my_pipeline():
    task = get_date_string()
    importer_task = dsl.importer(
        artifact_uri='gs://ml-pipeline-playground/shakespeare1.txt',
        artifact_class=dsl.Dataset,
        reimport=True,
        metadata={'date': task.output})
    other_component(dataset=importer_task.output)
```

In addition to the `artifact_uri`, you must provide an `artifact_class`, indicating the type of the artifact.

The `importer` component permits setting artifact metadata via the `metadata` argument. Metadata can be constructed with outputs from upstream tasks, as is done for the `'date'` value in the example pipeline.

You may also specify a boolean `reimport` argument. If `reimport` is `False`, KFP will use an existing MLMD artifact if it already exists from an earlier importer execution. If `reimport` is `True`, KFP will reimport the artifact as a new artifact, irrespective of whether it was previously imported.