content/en/docs/pipelines/sdk/enviroment_variables.md, before:

+++
title = "Using environment variables in pipelines"
description = "How to set and use environment variables in Kubeflow pipelines"
weight = 115
+++

This page describes how to pass environment variables to Kubeflow pipeline 
components.

## Before you start

Set up your environment: 

- [Install Kubeflow](/docs/started/getting-started/)
- [Install the Kubeflow Pipelines SDK](/docs/pipelines/sdk/install-sdk/)



## Using environment variables 

In this example, you pass an environment variable to a lightweight Python 
component, which writes the variable's value to the log.

[Learn more about lightweight Python components](/docs/pipelines/sdk/lightweight-python-components/)

To build a component, define a stand-alone Python function and then call 
[kfp.components.func_to_container_op(func)](https://kubeflow-pipelines.readthedocs.io/en/latest/source/kfp.components.html#kfp.components.func_to_container_op) to convert the 
function to a component that can be used in a pipeline. The following function gets an 
environment variable and writes it to the log.

```python
def logg_env_function():
  import os
  import logging
  logging.basicConfig(level=logging.INFO)
  env_variable = os.getenv('example_env')
  logging.info('The environment variable is: {}'.format(env_variable))
```

Transform the function into a component using 
[kfp.components.func_to_container_op(func)](https://kubeflow-pipelines.readthedocs.io/en/latest/source/kfp.components.html#kfp.components.func_to_container_op).  
```python
image_name = 'tensorflow/tensorflow:1.11.0-py3'
logg_env_function_op = comp.func_to_container_op(logg_env_function,
                                                 base_image=image_name)
```

Add this component to a pipeline. Use [add_env_variable](https://kubeflow-pipelines.readthedocs.io/en/latest/source/kfp.dsl.html#kfp.dsl.ContainerOp.container) to pass an 
environment variable into the component. This code is the same no matter if your
using python lightweight components or a [container operation](https://kubeflow-pipelines.readthedocs.io/en/latest/source/kfp.dsl.html#kfp.dsl.ContainerOp). 


```python
import kfp.dsl as dsl
from kubernetes.client.models import V1EnvVar

@dsl.pipeline(
  name='Env example',
  description='A pipline showing how to use environment variables'
)
def environment_pipline():
  env_var = V1EnvVar(name='example_env', value='env_variable')
  #Returns a dsl.ContainerOp class instance. 
  container_op = logg_env_function_op().add_env_variable(env_var) 
```

To pass more environment variables into a component, add more instances of 
[add_env_variable()](https://kubeflow-pipelines.readthedocs.io/en/latest/source/kfp.dsl.html#kfp.dsl.ContainerOp.container). Use the following command to run this pipeline using the 
Kubeflow Pipelines SDK.

```python
#Specify pipeline argument values
arguments = {}

#Submit a pipeline run
kfp.Client().create_run_from_pipeline_func(environment_pipline,
                                           arguments=arguments)
```

Commit message:

Added outdated banner to non-index docs unchanged in last 30d (#2072)
This was originally PR #2066. @RFMVasconcelos is out this week and
the PR is blocked by a merge conflict so I rebased it in order
to get it merged.

Related to: #1984

Author:    jlewi <jeremy@lewi.us>

content/en/docs/pipelines/sdk/enviroment_variables.md, after:

+++
title = "Using environment variables in pipelines"
description = "How to set and use environment variables in Kubeflow pipelines"
weight = 115
                    
+++
{{% alert title="Out of date" color="warning" %}}
This guide contains outdated information pertaining to Kubeflow 1.0. This guide
needs to be updated for Kubeflow 1.1.
{{% /alert %}}

This page describes how to pass environment variables to Kubeflow pipeline 
components.

## Before you start

Set up your environment: 

- [Install Kubeflow](/docs/started/getting-started/)
- [Install the Kubeflow Pipelines SDK](/docs/pipelines/sdk/install-sdk/)



## Using environment variables 

In this example, you pass an environment variable to a lightweight Python 
component, which writes the variable's value to the log.

[Learn more about lightweight Python components](/docs/pipelines/sdk/lightweight-python-components/)

To build a component, define a stand-alone Python function and then call 
[kfp.components.func_to_container_op(func)](https://kubeflow-pipelines.readthedocs.io/en/latest/source/kfp.components.html#kfp.components.func_to_container_op) to convert the 
function to a component that can be used in a pipeline. The following function gets an 
environment variable and writes it to the log.

```python
def logg_env_function():
  import os
  import logging
  logging.basicConfig(level=logging.INFO)
  env_variable = os.getenv('example_env')
  logging.info('The environment variable is: {}'.format(env_variable))
```

Transform the function into a component using 
[kfp.components.func_to_container_op(func)](https://kubeflow-pipelines.readthedocs.io/en/latest/source/kfp.components.html#kfp.components.func_to_container_op).  
```python
image_name = 'tensorflow/tensorflow:1.11.0-py3'
logg_env_function_op = comp.func_to_container_op(logg_env_function,
                                                 base_image=image_name)
```

Add this component to a pipeline. Use [add_env_variable](https://kubeflow-pipelines.readthedocs.io/en/latest/source/kfp.dsl.html#kfp.dsl.ContainerOp.container) to pass an 
environment variable into the component. This code is the same no matter if your
using python lightweight components or a [container operation](https://kubeflow-pipelines.readthedocs.io/en/latest/source/kfp.dsl.html#kfp.dsl.ContainerOp). 


```python
import kfp.dsl as dsl
from kubernetes.client.models import V1EnvVar

@dsl.pipeline(
  name='Env example',
  description='A pipline showing how to use environment variables'
)
def environment_pipline():
  env_var = V1EnvVar(name='example_env', value='env_variable')
  #Returns a dsl.ContainerOp class instance. 
  container_op = logg_env_function_op().add_env_variable(env_var) 
```

To pass more environment variables into a component, add more instances of 
[add_env_variable()](https://kubeflow-pipelines.readthedocs.io/en/latest/source/kfp.dsl.html#kfp.dsl.ContainerOp.container). Use the following command to run this pipeline using the 
Kubeflow Pipelines SDK.

```python
#Specify pipeline argument values
arguments = {}

#Submit a pipeline run
kfp.Client().create_run_from_pipeline_func(environment_pipline,
                                           arguments=arguments)
```
