content/en/docs/pipelines/sdk/install-sdk.md, before:

+++
title = "Install the Kubeflow Pipelines SDK"
description = "Setting up your Kubeflow Pipelines development environment"
weight = 20
+++

This guide tells you how to install the 
[Kubeflow Pipelines SDK](https://github.com/kubeflow/pipelines/tree/master/sdk)
which you can use to build machine learning pipelines. You can use the SDK
to execute your pipeline, or alternatively you can upload the pipeline to
the Kubeflow Pipelines UI for execution.

All of the SDK's classes and methods are described in the auto-generated [SDK reference docs](https://kubeflow-pipelines.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).

## Set up Python

You need **Python 3.5** or later to use the Kubeflow Pipelines SDK. This
guide uses Python 3.7.

If you haven't yet set up a Python 3 environment, do so now. This guide
recommends [Miniconda](https://conda.io/miniconda.html), but you can use
a virtual environment manager of your choice, such as `virtualenv`.

Follow the steps below to set 
up Python using [Miniconda](https://conda.io/miniconda.html):

1. Choose one of the following methods to install Miniconda, depending on your
  environment:

    * Debian/Ubuntu/[Cloud Shell](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell):   

        ```bash
        apt-get update; apt-get install -y wget bzip2
        wget https://repo.continuum.io/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
        bash Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
        ```

    * Windows: Download the 
    [installer](https://repo.continuum.io/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Windows-x86_64.exe)
    and make sure you select the option to
    **Add Miniconda to my PATH environment variable** during the installation.

    * MacOS: Download the 
    [installer](https://repo.continuum.io/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-MacOSX-x86_64.sh)
    and run the following command:

        ```bash
        bash Miniconda3-latest-MacOSX-x86_64.sh
        ```

1. Check that the `conda` command is available:

    ```bash
    which conda
    ```

    If the `conda` command is not found, add Miniconda to your path:
 
    ```bash
    export PATH=<YOUR_MINICONDA_PATH>/bin:$PATH
    ```

1. Create a clean Python 3 environment with a name of your choosing. This
  example uses Python 3.7 and an environment name of `mlpipeline`.:
 
    ```bash
    conda create --name mlpipeline python=3.7
    conda activate mlpipeline
    ```
 
## Install the Kubeflow Pipelines SDK

Run the following command to install the Kubeflow Pipelines SDK:

```bash
pip3 install kfp --upgrade
```
**Note:** If you are not using a virtual environment, such as `conda`, when installing the Kubeflow Pipelines SDK, you may receive the following error:
```bash
ERROR: Could not install packages due to an EnvironmentError: [Errno 13] Permission denied: '/usr/local/lib/python3.5/dist-packages/kfp-0.2.0.dist-info'
Consider using the `--user` option or check the permissions.
```

If you get this error, install `kfp` with the `--user` option:
```bash
pip3 install kfp --upgrade --user
```
This command installs the `dsl-compile` and `kfp` binaries under `~/.local/bin`, which is not part of the PATH in some Linux distributions, such as Ubuntu. You can add `~/.local/bin` to your PATH by appending the following to a new line at the end of your `.bashrc` file:

```bash
export PATH=$PATH:~/.local/bin
```

After successful installation, the command `dsl-compile` should be available.
You can use this command to verify it:

```bash
which dsl-compile
```

The response should be something like this:

```
/<PATH_TO_YOUR_USER_BIN>/miniconda3/envs/mlpipeline/bin/dsl-compile
```

## Next steps

* [See how to use the SDK](/docs/pipelines/sdk/sdk-overview/).
* [Build a component and a pipeline](/docs/pipelines/sdk/build-component/).
* [Get started with the UI](/docs/pipelines/pipelines-quickstart).
* [Understand pipeline concepts](/docs/pipelines/concepts/).

Commit message:

Added outdated banner to non-index docs unchanged in last 30d
This was originally PR #2066. @RFMVasconcelos is out this week and
the PR is blocked by a merge conflict so I rebased it in order
to get it merged.

Related to: #1984

Author:    jlewi <jeremy@lewi.us>

content/en/docs/pipelines/sdk/install-sdk.md, after:

+++
title = "Install the Kubeflow Pipelines SDK"
description = "Setting up your Kubeflow Pipelines development environment"
weight = 20
                    
+++
{{% alert title="Out of date" color="warning" %}}
This guide contains outdated information pertaining to Kubeflow 1.0. This guide
needs to be updated for Kubeflow 1.1.
{{% /alert %}}

This guide tells you how to install the 
[Kubeflow Pipelines SDK](https://github.com/kubeflow/pipelines/tree/master/sdk)
which you can use to build machine learning pipelines. You can use the SDK
to execute your pipeline, or alternatively you can upload the pipeline to
the Kubeflow Pipelines UI for execution.

All of the SDK's classes and methods are described in the auto-generated [SDK reference docs](https://kubeflow-pipelines.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).

## Set up Python

You need **Python 3.5** or later to use the Kubeflow Pipelines SDK. This
guide uses Python 3.7.

If you haven't yet set up a Python 3 environment, do so now. This guide
recommends [Miniconda](https://conda.io/miniconda.html), but you can use
a virtual environment manager of your choice, such as `virtualenv`.

Follow the steps below to set 
up Python using [Miniconda](https://conda.io/miniconda.html):

1. Choose one of the following methods to install Miniconda, depending on your
  environment:

    * Debian/Ubuntu/[Cloud Shell](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloudshell):   

        ```bash
        apt-get update; apt-get install -y wget bzip2
        wget https://repo.continuum.io/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
        bash Miniconda3-latest-Linux-x86_64.sh
        ```

    * Windows: Download the 
    [installer](https://repo.continuum.io/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Windows-x86_64.exe)
    and make sure you select the option to
    **Add Miniconda to my PATH environment variable** during the installation.

    * MacOS: Download the 
    [installer](https://repo.continuum.io/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-MacOSX-x86_64.sh)
    and run the following command:

        ```bash
        bash Miniconda3-latest-MacOSX-x86_64.sh
        ```

1. Check that the `conda` command is available:

    ```bash
    which conda
    ```

    If the `conda` command is not found, add Miniconda to your path:
 
    ```bash
    export PATH=<YOUR_MINICONDA_PATH>/bin:$PATH
    ```

1. Create a clean Python 3 environment with a name of your choosing. This
  example uses Python 3.7 and an environment name of `mlpipeline`.:
 
    ```bash
    conda create --name mlpipeline python=3.7
    conda activate mlpipeline
    ```
 
## Install the Kubeflow Pipelines SDK

Run the following command to install the Kubeflow Pipelines SDK:

```bash
pip3 install kfp --upgrade
```
**Note:** If you are not using a virtual environment, such as `conda`, when installing the Kubeflow Pipelines SDK, you may receive the following error:
```bash
ERROR: Could not install packages due to an EnvironmentError: [Errno 13] Permission denied: '/usr/local/lib/python3.5/dist-packages/kfp-0.2.0.dist-info'
Consider using the `--user` option or check the permissions.
```

If you get this error, install `kfp` with the `--user` option:
```bash
pip3 install kfp --upgrade --user
```
This command installs the `dsl-compile` and `kfp` binaries under `~/.local/bin`, which is not part of the PATH in some Linux distributions, such as Ubuntu. You can add `~/.local/bin` to your PATH by appending the following to a new line at the end of your `.bashrc` file:

```bash
export PATH=$PATH:~/.local/bin
```

After successful installation, the command `dsl-compile` should be available.
You can use this command to verify it:

```bash
which dsl-compile
```

The response should be something like this:

```
/<PATH_TO_YOUR_USER_BIN>/miniconda3/envs/mlpipeline/bin/dsl-compile
```

## Next steps

* [See how to use the SDK](/docs/pipelines/sdk/sdk-overview/).
* [Build a component and a pipeline](/docs/pipelines/sdk/build-component/).
* [Get started with the UI](/docs/pipelines/pipelines-quickstart).
* [Understand pipeline concepts](/docs/pipelines/concepts/).
