content/en/docs/pipelines/sdk/pipelines-metrics.md, before:

+++
title = "Pipeline Metrics"
description = "Export and visualize pipeline metrics"
weight = 90
                    
+++
{{% alert title="Out of date" color="warning" %}}
This guide contains outdated information pertaining to Kubeflow 1.0. This guide
needs to be updated for Kubeflow 1.1.
{{% /alert %}}

This page shows you how to export metrics from a Kubeflow Pipelines component. 
For details about how to build a component, see the guide to 
[building your own component](/docs/pipelines/sdk/build-component/).
 
## Overview of metrics

Kubeflow Pipelines supports the export of scalar metrics. You can write a list
of metrics to a local file to describe the performance of the model. The
pipeline agent uploads the local file as your run-time metrics. You can view the
uploaded metrics as a visualization in the **Runs** page for a particular
experiment in the Kubeflow Pipelines UI.
 
## Export the metrics file

To enable metrics, your program must write out a file named 
`/mlpipeline-metrics.json`. For example:

```Python
  accuracy = accuracy_score(df['target'], df['predicted'])
  metrics = {
    'metrics': [{
      'name': 'accuracy-score', # The name of the metric. Visualized as the column name in the runs table.
      'numberValue':  accuracy, # The value of the metric. Must be a numeric value.
      'format': "PERCENTAGE",   # The optional format of the metric. Supported values are "RAW" (displayed in raw format) and "PERCENTAGE" (displayed in percentage format).
    }]
  }
  with file_io.FileIO('/mlpipeline-metrics.json', 'w') as f:
    json.dump(metrics, f)
```

See the 
[full example](https://github.com/kubeflow/pipelines/blob/master/components/local/confusion_matrix/src/confusion_matrix.py).

The metrics file has the following requirements:

* The file path must be `/mlpipeline-metrics.json`.
* `name` must follow the pattern `^[a-zA-Z]([-_a-zA-Z0-9]{0,62}[a-zA-Z0-9])?$`.

    For Kubeflow Pipelines version 0.5.1 or earlier, name must match the following pattern `^[a-z]([-a-z0-9]{0,62}[a-z0-9])?$`
* `numberValue` must be a numeric value.
* `format` can only be `PERCENTAGE`, `RAW`, or not set.

## View the metrics

To see a visualization of the metrics:

1. Open the **Experiments** page in the Kubeflow Pipelines UI.
1. Click one of your experiments. The **Runs** page opens showing the top two 
  metrics, where *top* is determined by prevalence (that is, the metrics with 
  the highest count) and then by metric name. 
  The metrics appear as columns for each run.
  
The following example shows the **accuracy-score** and 
**roc-auc-score** metrics for two runs within an experiment:

<img src="/docs/images/taxi-tip-run-scores.png" 
  alt="Metrics from a pipeline run"
  class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">

## Next step

Visualize the output of your component by [writing out metadata for an output 
viewer](/docs/pipelines/metrics/output-viewer/).

Commit message:

Correct requirement inaccuracy in the metrics documentation (#2213)
* Correct requirement inaccuracy in the metrics documentation

This corrects a misleading sentence in the pipeline metrics documentation, where the docs suggest the file name matters, but in reality the artifact name is what matters. This is similar to https://github.com/kubeflow/website/pull/2212.

* Wrap new metrics documentation paragraph lines at 80 chars

content/en/docs/pipelines/sdk/pipelines-metrics.md, after:

+++
title = "Pipeline Metrics"
description = "Export and visualize pipeline metrics"
weight = 90
                    
+++
{{% alert title="Out of date" color="warning" %}}
This guide contains outdated information pertaining to Kubeflow 1.0. This guide
needs to be updated for Kubeflow 1.1.
{{% /alert %}}

This page shows you how to export metrics from a Kubeflow Pipelines component. 
For details about how to build a component, see the guide to 
[building your own component](/docs/pipelines/sdk/build-component/).
 
## Overview of metrics

Kubeflow Pipelines supports the export of scalar metrics. You can write a list
of metrics to a local file to describe the performance of the model. The
pipeline agent uploads the local file as your run-time metrics. You can view the
uploaded metrics as a visualization in the **Runs** page for a particular
experiment in the Kubeflow Pipelines UI.
 
## Export the metrics file

To enable metrics, your component must write a JSON file specifying metrics to
render. The pipeline component must also export a file output artifact with an
artifact name of `mlpipeline-metrics`, or else the Kubeflow Pipelines UI will
not render the visualization. In other words, the `.outputs.artifacts` setting
for the generated pipeline component should show:
`- {name: mlpipeline-metrics, path: /mlpipeline-metrics.json}`.
The JSON filepath does not matter, although `/mlpipeline-metrics.json` is used
for consistency in the examples below.

Example JSON content:

```Python
  accuracy = accuracy_score(df['target'], df['predicted'])
  metrics = {
    'metrics': [{
      'name': 'accuracy-score', # The name of the metric. Visualized as the column name in the runs table.
      'numberValue':  accuracy, # The value of the metric. Must be a numeric value.
      'format': "PERCENTAGE",   # The optional format of the metric. Supported values are "RAW" (displayed in raw format) and "PERCENTAGE" (displayed in percentage format).
    }]
  }
  with file_io.FileIO('/mlpipeline-metrics.json', 'w') as f:
    json.dump(metrics, f)
```

See the 
[full example](https://github.com/kubeflow/pipelines/blob/master/components/local/confusion_matrix/src/confusion_matrix.py).

The metrics file has the following requirements:

* `name` must follow the pattern `^[a-zA-Z]([-_a-zA-Z0-9]{0,62}[a-zA-Z0-9])?$`.

    For Kubeflow Pipelines version 0.5.1 or earlier, name must match the following pattern `^[a-z]([-a-z0-9]{0,62}[a-z0-9])?$`
* `numberValue` must be a numeric value.
* `format` can only be `PERCENTAGE`, `RAW`, or not set.

## View the metrics

To see a visualization of the metrics:

1. Open the **Experiments** page in the Kubeflow Pipelines UI.
1. Click one of your experiments. The **Runs** page opens showing the top two 
  metrics, where *top* is determined by prevalence (that is, the metrics with 
  the highest count) and then by metric name. 
  The metrics appear as columns for each run.
  
The following example shows the **accuracy-score** and 
**roc-auc-score** metrics for two runs within an experiment:

<img src="/docs/images/taxi-tip-run-scores.png" 
  alt="Metrics from a pipeline run"
  class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">

## Next step

Visualize the output of your component by [writing out metadata for an output 
viewer](/docs/pipelines/metrics/output-viewer/).
