content/en/docs/pipelines/overview/concepts/graph.md, before:

+++
title = "Graph"
description = "Conceptual overview of graphs in Kubeflow Pipelines"
weight = 30
+++

A *graph* is a pictorial representation in the Kubeflow Pipelines UI of the
runtime execution of a pipeline. The graph shows the steps that a pipeline run
has executed or is executing, with arrows indicating the parent/child
relationships between the pipeline components represented by each step. The
graph is viewable as soon as the run begins. Each node within the graph
corresponds to a step within the pipeline and is labeled accordingly.

The screenshot below shows an example of a pipeline graph:

<img src="/docs/images/pipelines-xgboost-graph.png" 
  alt="XGBoost results on the pipelines UI"
  class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">

At the top right of each node is an icon indicating its status: running,
succeeded, failed, or skipped. (A node can be skipped when its 
parent contains a conditional clause.)

## Next steps

* Read an [overview of Kubeflow Pipelines](/docs/pipelines/pipelines-overview/).
* Follow the [pipelines quickstart guide](/docs/pipelines/pipelines-quickstart/) 
  to deploy Kubeflow and run a sample pipeline directly from the Kubeflow 
  Pipelines UI.

Commit message:

Added outdated banner to non-index docs unchanged in last 30d (#2072)
This was originally PR #2066. @RFMVasconcelos is out this week and
the PR is blocked by a merge conflict so I rebased it in order
to get it merged.

Related to: #1984

Author:    jlewi <jeremy@lewi.us>

content/en/docs/pipelines/overview/concepts/graph.md, after:

+++
title = "Graph"
description = "Conceptual overview of graphs in Kubeflow Pipelines"
weight = 30
                    
+++
{{% alert title="Out of date" color="warning" %}}
This guide contains outdated information pertaining to Kubeflow 1.0. This guide
needs to be updated for Kubeflow 1.1.
{{% /alert %}}

A *graph* is a pictorial representation in the Kubeflow Pipelines UI of the
runtime execution of a pipeline. The graph shows the steps that a pipeline run
has executed or is executing, with arrows indicating the parent/child
relationships between the pipeline components represented by each step. The
graph is viewable as soon as the run begins. Each node within the graph
corresponds to a step within the pipeline and is labeled accordingly.

The screenshot below shows an example of a pipeline graph:

<img src="/docs/images/pipelines-xgboost-graph.png" 
  alt="XGBoost results on the pipelines UI"
  class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">

At the top right of each node is an icon indicating its status: running,
succeeded, failed, or skipped. (A node can be skipped when its 
parent contains a conditional clause.)

## Next steps

* Read an [overview of Kubeflow Pipelines](/docs/pipelines/pipelines-overview/).
* Follow the [pipelines quickstart guide](/docs/pipelines/pipelines-quickstart/) 
  to deploy Kubeflow and run a sample pipeline directly from the Kubeflow 
  Pipelines UI.
