content/en/docs/pipelines/overview/concepts/output-artifact.md, before:

+++
title = "Output Artifact"
description = "Conceptual overview of output artifacts in Kubeflow Pipelines"
weight = 80
+++

An *output artifact* is an output emitted by a pipeline component, which the
Kubeflow Pipelines UI understands and can render as rich visualizations. It’s
useful for pipeline components to include artifacts so that you can provide for
performance evaluation, quick decision making for the run, or comparison across
different runs. Artifacts also make it possible to understand how the pipeline’s
various components work. An artifact can range from a plain textual view of the
data to rich interactive visualizations.

## Next steps

* Read an [overview of Kubeflow Pipelines](/docs/pipelines/pipelines-overview/).
* Follow the [pipelines quickstart guide](/docs/pipelines/pipelines-quickstart/) 
  to deploy Kubeflow and run a sample pipeline directly from the Kubeflow 
  Pipelines UI.
* Read more about the available 
  [output viewers](/docs/pipelines/metrics/output-viewer/) 
  and how to provide the metadata to make use of the visualizations
  that the output viewers provide.

Commit message:

Added outdated banner to non-index docs unchanged in last 30d
This was originally PR #2066. @RFMVasconcelos is out this week and
the PR is blocked by a merge conflict so I rebased it in order
to get it merged.

Related to: #1984

Author:    jlewi <jeremy@lewi.us>

content/en/docs/pipelines/overview/concepts/output-artifact.md, after:

+++
title = "Output Artifact"
description = "Conceptual overview of output artifacts in Kubeflow Pipelines"
weight = 80
                    
+++
{{% alert title="Out of date" color="warning" %}}
This guide contains outdated information pertaining to Kubeflow 1.0. This guide
needs to be updated for Kubeflow 1.1.
{{% /alert %}}

An *output artifact* is an output emitted by a pipeline component, which the
Kubeflow Pipelines UI understands and can render as rich visualizations. It’s
useful for pipeline components to include artifacts so that you can provide for
performance evaluation, quick decision making for the run, or comparison across
different runs. Artifacts also make it possible to understand how the pipeline’s
various components work. An artifact can range from a plain textual view of the
data to rich interactive visualizations.

## Next steps

* Read an [overview of Kubeflow Pipelines](/docs/pipelines/pipelines-overview/).
* Follow the [pipelines quickstart guide](/docs/pipelines/pipelines-quickstart/) 
  to deploy Kubeflow and run a sample pipeline directly from the Kubeflow 
  Pipelines UI.
* Read more about the available 
  [output viewers](/docs/pipelines/metrics/output-viewer/) 
  and how to provide the metadata to make use of the visualizations
  that the output viewers provide.
