content/en/docs/notebooks/custom-notebook.md, before:

+++
title = "Create a Custom Jupyter Image"
description = "Creating a custom Docker image for your Jupyter notebook"
weight = 30
+++

This guide tells you how to configure a custom Docker image for your Jupyter
notebook server in Kubeflow.

Your custom image must meet the requirements of the Kubeflow notebook
controller which manages the life cycle of notebooks. The Kubeflow UI expects
Jupyter to start after launching the Docker image with `docker run`. You must
therefore set the default command of your Docker image to launch Jupyter.

Follow these steps to configure the launch command (`CMD`) in your Docker image:

* Set the working directory:

    ```
    --notebook-dir=/home/jovyan
    ```

    The `/home/jovyan`  directory is backed by a 
    [Kubernetes persistent volume (PV)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/).

* Allow Jupyter to listen on all IP addresses:

    ```
    --ip=0.0.0.0
    ```

* Allow the user to run the notebook as root:

    ```
    --allow-root
    ```

* Set the port:

    ```
    --port=8888
    ```

* Disable authentication. (Kubeflow takes care of authentication based on
  the type of authentication selected during deployment of Kubeflow. After
  authentication to Kubeflow, users can access all Kubeflow components
  from the UI, including notebooks.)
  
    Use the following setting to allow passwordless access to your Jupyter
    notebook servers:

    ```
    --NotebookApp.token=''  --NotebookApp.password=''
    ```

* Allow any origin to access your Jupyter notebook server:


    ```
    --NotebookApp.allow_origin='*'
    ```

* Set the base URL. The Kubeflow notebook controller manages the base URL for
  the notebook server using the environment variable called `NB_PREFIX`. Your
  Docker image should define the variable and set the value of `base_url` as
  follows:

    ```
    --NotebookApp.base_url=NB_PREFIX
    ```

Below is an example of what your Dockerfile should contain:


```
ENV NB_PREFIX /

CMD ["sh","-c", "jupyter notebook --notebook-dir=/home/jovyan --ip=0.0.0.0 --no-browser --allow-root --port=8888 --NotebookApp.token='' --NotebookApp.password='' --NotebookApp.allow_origin='*' --NotebookApp.base_url=${NB_PREFIX}"]
```

## Next steps

When starting a Jupyter notebook server from the
Kubeflow UI, specify your custom Docker image. See the guide to [setting up
your Jupyter notebooks](/docs/notebooks/setup/).

Commit message:

Added outdated banner to non-index docs unchanged in last 30d (#2072)
This was originally PR #2066. @RFMVasconcelos is out this week and
the PR is blocked by a merge conflict so I rebased it in order
to get it merged.

Related to: #1984

Author:    jlewi <jeremy@lewi.us>

content/en/docs/notebooks/custom-notebook.md, after:

+++
title = "Create a Custom Jupyter Image"
description = "Creating a custom Docker image for your Jupyter notebook"
weight = 30
                    
+++
{{% alert title="Out of date" color="warning" %}}
This guide contains outdated information pertaining to Kubeflow 1.0. This guide
needs to be updated for Kubeflow 1.1.
{{% /alert %}}

This guide tells you how to configure a custom Docker image for your Jupyter
notebook server in Kubeflow.

Your custom image must meet the requirements of the Kubeflow notebook
controller which manages the life cycle of notebooks. The Kubeflow UI expects
Jupyter to start after launching the Docker image with `docker run`. You must
therefore set the default command of your Docker image to launch Jupyter.

Follow these steps to configure the launch command (`CMD`) in your Docker image:

* Set the working directory:

    ```
    --notebook-dir=/home/jovyan
    ```

    The `/home/jovyan`  directory is backed by a 
    [Kubernetes persistent volume (PV)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/).

* Allow Jupyter to listen on all IP addresses:

    ```
    --ip=0.0.0.0
    ```

* Allow the user to run the notebook as root:

    ```
    --allow-root
    ```

* Set the port:

    ```
    --port=8888
    ```

* Disable authentication. (Kubeflow takes care of authentication based on
  the type of authentication selected during deployment of Kubeflow. After
  authentication to Kubeflow, users can access all Kubeflow components
  from the UI, including notebooks.)
  
    Use the following setting to allow passwordless access to your Jupyter
    notebook servers:

    ```
    --NotebookApp.token=''  --NotebookApp.password=''
    ```

* Allow any origin to access your Jupyter notebook server:


    ```
    --NotebookApp.allow_origin='*'
    ```

* Set the base URL. The Kubeflow notebook controller manages the base URL for
  the notebook server using the environment variable called `NB_PREFIX`. Your
  Docker image should define the variable and set the value of `base_url` as
  follows:

    ```
    --NotebookApp.base_url=NB_PREFIX
    ```

Below is an example of what your Dockerfile should contain:


```
ENV NB_PREFIX /

CMD ["sh","-c", "jupyter notebook --notebook-dir=/home/jovyan --ip=0.0.0.0 --no-browser --allow-root --port=8888 --NotebookApp.token='' --NotebookApp.password='' --NotebookApp.allow_origin='*' --NotebookApp.base_url=${NB_PREFIX}"]
```

## Next steps

When starting a Jupyter notebook server from the
Kubeflow UI, specify your custom Docker image. See the guide to [setting up
your Jupyter notebooks](/docs/notebooks/setup/).
