content/docs/guides/gitops-for-kubeflow.md, before:

+++
title = "GitOps For Kubeflow Using Argo CD"
description = "Running Kubeflow using the GitOps methodology with Argo CD"
weight = 10
toc = true
bref = "This guide describes how to setup Kubeflow using a GitOps methodology by leveraging Argo-CD"

[menu.docs]
  parent = "guides"
  weight = 30
+++

## What is GitOps?
GitOps is a Continuous Delivery methodology centered around using Git as a single source of truth for declarative infrastructure and application code.  The Git repo defines the desired state of an application using declarative specifications, and a GitOps tool like Argo CD will reconcile the differences between the manifest defined by the git repo and the live system.  As a result, GitOps enforces an operating model where all changes are observable and verifiable through git commits.  The declarative specifications streamline deployments as developers do not need to write scripts to build and deploy their application.  Once the application is deployed, debugging is simplified as developers have a clear set of change logs through their Git commits history.  Even if the live system has drifted away from the source repo's desired state, the GitOps methodology provides the tools to converge the real system with the desired state through the declarative specs.  Finally, once the breaking commit is found, rollback becomes as simple as syncing a previously good git commit.  All these benefits reduce the amount of work developers have to spend on managing deployments to allow them to focus on other features.

## Argo CD and GitOps
Argo CD is a Kubernetes-native Declarative Continuous Delivery tool that follows the GitOps methodology.  Along with all the benefits of using GitOps, Argo CD offers:

* Integrations with templating tools like Ksonnet, Helm, and Kustomize in addition to plain yaml files to define the desired state of an application
* Automated or manual syncing of applications to its desired state
* Intuititve UI to provide observability into the state of applications
* Extensive CLI to integrate Argo CD with any CI system
* Enterprise-ready features like auditability, compliance, security, RBAC, and SSO

## Before you start
This guide assumes you have a kubernetes cluster. If you don't, follow [this guide](/docs/started/getting-started/#set-up-kubernetes) to create one.

## Install Argo CD
Follow the [argo cd getting started guide](https://github.com/argoproj/argo-cd/blob/master/docs/getting_started.md) up to the '[Create an application from a git repository location](https://github.com/argoproj/argo-cd/blob/master/docs/getting_started.md#6-create-an-application-from-a-git-repository-location)' step.

* For example, if your local machine is OSX and you want to deploy Argo CD and Kubeflow to the same GKE cluster, you could run:

1. Install Argo CD to the Kubernetes Cluster
```shell
ARGO_CD_LATEST=$(curl --silent "https://api.github.com/repos/argoproj/argo-cd/releases/latest" | grep '"tag_name"' | sed -E 's/.*"([^"]+)".*/\1/')
kubectl create namespace argocd
kubectl apply -n argocd -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/argoproj/argo-cd/$ARGO_CD_LATEST/manifests/install.yaml
```

1. Install Argo CD Cli
```shell
brew install argoproj/tap/argocd
```

1. Set extra permissions for Argo CD
Since the GKE cluster has RBAC enabled, you will need to grant your account the ability to create new cluster roles by running:
```shell
kubectl create clusterrolebinding YOURNAME-cluster-admin-binding --clusterrole=cluster-admin --user=YOUREMAIL@gmail.com
```

1. Expose the Argo CD API server
```shell
kubectl patch svc argocd-server -n argocd -p '{"spec": {"type": "LoadBalancer"}}'
```
1. Login using the CLI as admin user

    The initial password for the admin user is autogenerated to be the pod name of the ArgoCD API server. This can be retrieved with the command:

    ```shell
    kubectl get pods -n argocd -l app=argocd-server -o name | cut -d'/' -f 2
    ```

    Using the above password, login to ArgoCD's external IP:
    ```shell
    kubectl get svc -n argocd argocd-server
    argocd login <EXTERNAL-IP>
    ```
    After logging in, change the password using the command:
    ```shell
    argocd account update-password
    argocd relogin
    ```

## Create Kubeflow deployment repo
1. Create a git repo to store your Kubeflow configuration.
1. If you did not use the `kfctl.sh` script to create your kubernetes cluster and generate the kubernetes resources:
    1. Run the following script to download `kfctl.sh`:

        ```shell
        mkdir ${KUBEFLOW_REPO}
        cd ${KUBEFLOW_REPO}
        export KUBEFLOW_TAG={{% kf-stable-tag %}}
        curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/${KUBEFLOW_TAG}/scripts/download.sh | bash
        ```
        * **KUBEFLOW_REPO** directory where you want to download the source to
        * **KUBEFLOW_TAG** a tag corresponding to the version to checkout such as `master` for latest code.
        * **Note** you can also just clone the repository using git.
    1. Run the following scripts to set up your Kubeflow KS application:

        ```
        ${KUBEFLOW_REPO}/scripts/kfctl.sh init ${KFAPP} --platform none
        cd ${KFAPP}
        ${KUBEFLOW_REPO}/scripts/kfctl.sh generate k8s
        ```
        * **KFAPP** directory to store all of your kubeflow configuration

1. Add the environment to your ksonnet application:
    * If you are deploying kubeflow in the same cluster as Argo CD, run:

    ```shell
    cd ks_app
    ks env add default --server https://kubernetes.default.svc --namespace kubeflow
    ```
    otherwise run:
    ```shell
    ks env add default
    argocd cluster add CONTEXTNAME
    ```
    * **CONTEXTNAME** Context name of the Kubernetes cluster you want to deploy into.
1.  Add the contents of the KSAPP directory to git repo you created in the first step.

## Deploying Kubeflow
Run the following commands to create the Kubeflow application in Argo CD and then sync the manifests in your git repo to your cluster:

```shell
export KUBEFLOW_REPO_URL='Replace with a ssh or https git endpoint'
argocd app create kubeflow --name kubeflow --repo $KUBEFLOW_REPO_URL --path ks_app --env default
argocd app sync kubeflow
```
* You can view the Kubeflow application by running:

```shell
argocd app get kubeflow
```
or from the UI:
![Argo CD In progress Deployment](/docs/images/argo-cd-deployment-in-progess.png)



* NOTE: There is a [known issue](https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/issues/1145) with the IAP component that prevents the envoy service from becoming synced and causes all subsequent syncs to fail.  As a workaround for this issue, we recommend that you sync individual resources by adding the resource flag to your sync command.

Once the sync has finished, you can then access your Kubeflow UI by going to `https://<KFAPP>.endpoint.<PROJECT>.cloud.googl/`

* It can take 10–15 minutes for the endpoint to become available. Kubeflow needs to provision a signed SSL certificate and register a DNS name.

## Going Forward
When you commit a change that modifies the ksonnet application directory of your Kubeflow repository (the ks_app directory if you used the kfctl.sh script), Argo CD will detect that your application is out of sync with your git repo.  To sync the new resource, you can run
```bash
argocd app sync kubeflow --resource GROUP:KIND:NAME
```
or from the UI:

![Argo CD In progress Deployment](/docs/images/argo-cd-partial-sync-ui.png)


## More Argo CD configuration
Please go to the [Argo CD documentation](https://github.com/argoproj/argo-cd/tree/master/docs#argocd-documentation) to read more about how to configure other features like auto-sync, SSO, RBAC, and more!

Commit message:

Use kubectl port-forward to connect to Argo CD

content/docs/guides/gitops-for-kubeflow.md, after:

+++
title = "GitOps For Kubeflow Using Argo CD"
description = "Running Kubeflow using the GitOps methodology with Argo CD"
weight = 10
toc = true
bref = "This guide describes how to setup Kubeflow using a GitOps methodology by leveraging Argo-CD"

[menu.docs]
  parent = "guides"
  weight = 30
+++

## What is GitOps?
GitOps is a Continuous Delivery methodology centered around using Git as a single source of truth for declarative infrastructure and application code.  The Git repo defines the desired state of an application using declarative specifications, and a GitOps tool like Argo CD will reconcile the differences between the manifest defined by the git repo and the live system.  As a result, GitOps enforces an operating model where all changes are observable and verifiable through git commits.  The declarative specifications streamline deployments as developers do not need to write scripts to build and deploy their application.  Once the application is deployed, debugging is simplified as developers have a clear set of change logs through their Git commits history.  Even if the live system has drifted away from the source repo's desired state, the GitOps methodology provides the tools to converge the real system with the desired state through the declarative specs.  Finally, once the breaking commit is found, rollback becomes as simple as syncing a previously good git commit.  All these benefits reduce the amount of work developers have to spend on managing deployments to allow them to focus on other features.

## Argo CD and GitOps
[Argo CD](https://argoproj.github.io/argo-cd) is a Kubernetes-native Declarative Continuous Delivery tool that follows the GitOps methodology.  Along with all the benefits of using GitOps, Argo CD offers:

* Integrations with templating tools like Ksonnet, Helm, and Kustomize in addition to plain yaml files to define the desired state of an application
* Automated or manual syncing of applications to its desired state
* Intuitive UI to provide observability into the state of applications
* Extensive CLI to integrate Argo CD with any CI system
* Enterprise-ready features like auditability, compliance, security, RBAC, and SSO

## Before you start
This guide assumes you have a kubernetes cluster. If you don't, follow [this guide](/docs/started/getting-started/#set-up-kubernetes) to create one.

## Install Argo CD
Follow the [argo cd getting started guide](https://github.com/argoproj/argo-cd/blob/master/docs/getting_started.md) up to the '[Create an application from a git repository location](https://github.com/argoproj/argo-cd/blob/master/docs/getting_started.md#6-create-an-application-from-a-git-repository-location)' step.

* For example, if your local machine is OSX and you want to deploy Argo CD and Kubeflow to the same GKE cluster, you could run:

1. Install Argo CD to the Kubernetes Cluster
```shell
ARGO_CD_LATEST=$(curl --silent "https://api.github.com/repos/argoproj/argo-cd/releases/latest" | grep '"tag_name"' | sed -E 's/.*"([^"]+)".*/\1/')
kubectl create namespace argocd
kubectl apply -n argocd -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/argoproj/argo-cd/$ARGO_CD_LATEST/manifests/install.yaml
```

1. Install Argo CD Cli
```shell
brew install argoproj/tap/argocd
```

1. Set extra permissions for Argo CD
Since the GKE cluster has RBAC enabled, you will need to grant your account the ability to create new cluster roles by running:
```shell
kubectl create clusterrolebinding YOURNAME-cluster-admin-binding --clusterrole=cluster-admin --user=YOUREMAIL@gmail.com
```

1. Expose the Argo CD API server
```shell
kubectl port-forward service/argocd-server 8080:443
```
You can read about other options to connect to your Argo CD instance [here](https://github.com/argoproj/argo-cd/blob/master/docs/getting_started.md#3-access-the-argocd-api-server).
1. Login using the CLI as admin user

    The initial password for the admin user is autogenerated to be the pod name of the ArgoCD API server. This can be retrieved with the command:

    ```shell
    kubectl get pods -n argocd -l app=argocd-server -o name | cut -d'/' -f 2
    ```

    Using the above password, login to ArgoCD's external IP:
    ```shell
    kubectl get svc -n argocd argocd-server
    argocd login localhost:8080
    ```
    After logging in, change the password using the command:
    ```shell
    argocd account update-password
    argocd relogin
    ```

## Create Kubeflow deployment repo
1. Create a git repo to store your Kubeflow configuration.
1. If you did not use the `kfctl.sh` script to create your kubernetes cluster and generate the kubernetes resources:
    1. Run the following script to download `kfctl.sh`:

        ```shell
        mkdir ${KUBEFLOW_REPO}
        cd ${KUBEFLOW_REPO}
        export KUBEFLOW_TAG={{% kf-stable-tag %}}
        curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/${KUBEFLOW_TAG}/scripts/download.sh | bash
        ```
        * **KUBEFLOW_REPO** directory where you want to download the source to
        * **KUBEFLOW_TAG** a tag corresponding to the version to checkout such as `master` for latest code.
        * **Note** you can also just clone the repository using git.
    1. Run the following scripts to set up your Kubeflow KS application:

        ```
        ${KUBEFLOW_REPO}/scripts/kfctl.sh init ${KFAPP} --platform none
        cd ${KFAPP}
        ${KUBEFLOW_REPO}/scripts/kfctl.sh generate k8s
        ```
        * **KFAPP** directory to store all of your kubeflow configuration

1. Add the environment to your ksonnet application:
    * If you are deploying kubeflow in the same cluster as Argo CD, run:

    ```shell
    cd ks_app
    ks env add default --server https://kubernetes.default.svc --namespace kubeflow
    ```
    otherwise run:
    ```shell
    ks env add default
    argocd cluster add CONTEXTNAME
    ```
    * **CONTEXTNAME** Context name of the Kubernetes cluster you want to deploy into.
1.  Add the contents of the KSAPP directory to git repo you created in the first step.

## Deploying Kubeflow
Run the following commands to create the Kubeflow application in Argo CD and then sync the manifests in your git repo to your cluster:

```shell
export KUBEFLOW_REPO_URL='Replace with a ssh or https git endpoint'
argocd app create kubeflow --name kubeflow --repo $KUBEFLOW_REPO_URL --path ks_app --env default
argocd app sync kubeflow
```
* You can view the Kubeflow application by running:

```shell
argocd app get kubeflow
```
or from the UI:
![Argo CD In progress Deployment](/docs/images/argo-cd-deployment-in-progess.png)



* NOTE: There is a [known issue](https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/issues/1145) with the IAP component that prevents the envoy service from becoming synced and causes all subsequent syncs to fail.  As a workaround for this issue, we recommend that you sync individual resources by adding the resource flag to your sync command.

Once the sync has finished, you can then access your Kubeflow UI by going to `https://<KFAPP>.endpoint.<PROJECT>.cloud.googl/`

* It can take 10–15 minutes for the endpoint to become available. Kubeflow needs to provision a signed SSL certificate and register a DNS name.

## Going Forward
When you commit a change that modifies the ksonnet application directory of your Kubeflow repository (the ks_app directory if you used the kfctl.sh script), Argo CD will detect that your application is out of sync with your git repo.  To sync the new resource, you can run
```bash
argocd app sync kubeflow --resource GROUP:KIND:NAME
```
or from the UI:

![Argo CD In progress Deployment](/docs/images/argo-cd-partial-sync-ui.png)


## More Argo CD configuration
Please go to the [Argo CD documentation](https://github.com/argoproj/argo-cd/tree/master/docs#argocd-documentation) to read more about how to configure other features like auto-sync, SSO, RBAC, and more!
