content/docs/guides/requirements.md, before:

+++
title = "Requirements"
description = "Requirements"
weight = 10
toc = true
bref= "This guide will walk you through the basics of deploying and interacting with Kubeflow. Some understanding of Kubernetes, Tensorflow, and Ksonnet are useful in completing the contents of this guide."
aliases = ["/docs/guides/"]
[menu.docs]
  parent = "guides"
  weight = 1
+++

* [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/kubernetes-basics/)
* [TensorFlow](https://www.tensorflow.org/get_started/)
* [ksonnet](https://ksonnet.io/docs/tutorial)

## Requirements

 * ksonnet version {{% ksonnet-min-version %}} or later. See the [ksonnet component page](/docs/guides/components/ksonnet/) for an explanation of why we use ksonnet.
 * An existing Kubernetes cluster using Kubernetes {{% kubernetes-min-version %}} or later:
   * A minimum of 0.6 CPU in cluster (Reserved for 3 replicated ambassador pods and according to your need add additional CPUs)
   * Node with storage >= 10 GB (Due to the ML libraries and third party packages being bundled in Kubeflow Docker images)

Commit message:

Improved the intro to the guides section in the 'Requirements' doc.

content/docs/guides/requirements.md, after:

+++
title = "Requirements"
description = "Requirements"
weight = 10
toc = true
bref= "The guides in this section give detailed information about using Kubeflow and its components."
aliases = ["/docs/guides/"]
[menu.docs]
  parent = "guides"
  weight = 1
+++

For best understanding of the guides, it's useful to have some knowledge of
the following systems:
* [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/kubernetes-basics/)
* [TensorFlow](https://www.tensorflow.org/get_started/)
* [ksonnet](https://ksonnet.io/docs/tutorial)

## Kubeflow requirements

 * ksonnet version {{% ksonnet-min-version %}} or later. See the [ksonnet component page](/docs/guides/components/ksonnet/) for an explanation of why we use ksonnet.
 * An existing Kubernetes cluster using Kubernetes {{% kubernetes-min-version %}} or later:
   * A minimum of 0.6 CPU in cluster (Reserved for 3 replicated ambassador pods and according to your need add additional CPUs)
   * Node with storage >= 10 GB (Due to the ML libraries and third party packages being bundled in Kubeflow Docker images)
