content/docs/pipelines/overview/pipelines-overview.md, before:

+++
title = "Overview of Kubeflow Pipelines"
description = "Understanding the goals and main concepts of Kubeflow Pipelines"
weight = 10
+++

{{% beta-status 
  feedbacklink="https://github.com/kubeflow/pipelines/issues" %}}

Kubeflow Pipelines is a platform for building and deploying portable, 
scalable machine learning (ML) workflows based on Docker containers.

## Quickstart

Run your first pipeline by following the 
[pipelines quickstart guide](/docs/pipelines/pipelines-quickstart).

## What is Kubeflow Pipelines?

The Kubeflow Pipelines platform consists of:

* A user interface (UI) for managing and tracking experiments, jobs, and runs.
* An engine for scheduling multi-step ML workflows.
* An SDK for defining and manipulating pipelines and components.
* Notebooks for interacting with the system using the SDK.

The following are the goals of Kubeflow Pipelines:

* End-to-end orchestration: enabling and simplifying the orchestration of
  machine learning pipelines.
* Easy experimentation: making it easy for you to try numerous ideas and 
  techniques and manage your various trials/experiments.
* Easy re-use: enabling you to re-use components and pipelines to quickly 
  create end-to-end solutions without having to rebuild each time.

In 
[Kubeflow v0.1.3 and later](https://github.com/kubeflow/pipelines/releases/tag/0.1.3),
Kubeflow Pipelines is one of the Kubeflow core components. It's automatically deployed during Kubeflow deployment.

{{% pipelines-compatibility %}}

## What is a pipeline?

A _pipeline_ is a description of an ML workflow, including all of the components 
in the workflow and how they combine in the form of a graph. (See the
screenshot below showing an example of a pipeline graph.) The pipeline
includes the definition of the inputs (parameters) required to run the pipeline 
and the inputs and outputs of each component.

After developing your pipeline, you can upload and share it on the 
Kubeflow Pipelines UI.

A _pipeline component_ is a self-contained set of user code, packaged as a 
[Docker image](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/), that 
performs one step in the pipeline. For example, a component can be responsible
for data preprocessing, data transformation, model training, and so on.

See the conceptual guides to [pipelines](/docs/pipelines/concepts/pipeline/)
and [components](/docs/pipelines/concepts/component/).

## Example of a pipeline

The screenshots and code below show the `xgboost-training-cm.py` pipeline, which
creates an XGBoost model using structured data in CSV format. You can see the
source code and other information about the pipeline on
[GitHub](https://github.com/kubeflow/pipelines/tree/master/samples/core/xgboost_training_cm).

### The runtime execution graph of the pipeline

The screenshot below shows the example pipeline's runtime execution graph in the
Kubeflow Pipelines UI:

<img src="/docs/images/pipelines-xgboost-graph.png" 
  alt="XGBoost results on the pipelines UI"
  class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">

### The Python code that represents the pipeline

Below is an extract from the Python code that defines the 
`xgboost-training-cm.py` pipeline. You can see the full code on 
[GitHub](https://github.com/kubeflow/pipelines/tree/master/samples/core/xgboost_training_cm).

```python
@dsl.pipeline(
    name='XGBoost Trainer',
    description='A trainer that does end-to-end distributed training for XGBoost models.'
)
def xgb_train_pipeline(
    output='gs://your-gcs-bucket',
    project='your-gcp-project',
    cluster_name='xgb-%s' % dsl.RUN_ID_PLACEHOLDER,
    region='us-central1',
    train_data='gs://ml-pipeline-playground/sfpd/train.csv',
    eval_data='gs://ml-pipeline-playground/sfpd/eval.csv',
    schema='gs://ml-pipeline-playground/sfpd/schema.json',
    target='resolution',
    rounds=200,
    workers=2,
    true_label='ACTION',
):
    output_template = str(output) + '/' + dsl.RUN_ID_PLACEHOLDER + '/data'

    # Current GCP pyspark/spark op do not provide outputs as return values, instead,
    # we need to use strings to pass the uri around.
    analyze_output = output_template
    transform_output_train = os.path.join(output_template, 'train', 'part-*')
    transform_output_eval = os.path.join(output_template, 'eval', 'part-*')
    train_output = os.path.join(output_template, 'train_output')
    predict_output = os.path.join(output_template, 'predict_output')

    with dsl.ExitHandler(exit_op=dataproc_delete_cluster_op(
        project_id=project,
        region=region,
        name=cluster_name
    )):
        _create_cluster_op = dataproc_create_cluster_op(
            project_id=project,
            region=region,
            name=cluster_name,
            initialization_actions=[
              os.path.join(_PYSRC_PREFIX,
                           'initialization_actions.sh'),
            ],
            image_version='1.2'
        )

        _analyze_op = dataproc_analyze_op(
            project=project,
            region=region,
            cluster_name=cluster_name,
            schema=schema,
            train_data=train_data,
            output=output_template
        ).after(_create_cluster_op).set_display_name('Analyzer')

        _transform_op = dataproc_transform_op(
            project=project,
            region=region,
            cluster_name=cluster_name,
            train_data=train_data,
            eval_data=eval_data,
            target=target,
            analysis=analyze_output,
            output=output_template
        ).after(_analyze_op).set_display_name('Transformer')

        _train_op = dataproc_train_op(
            project=project,
            region=region,
            cluster_name=cluster_name,
            train_data=transform_output_train,
            eval_data=transform_output_eval,
            target=target,
            analysis=analyze_output,
            workers=workers,
            rounds=rounds,
            output=train_output
        ).after(_transform_op).set_display_name('Trainer')

        _predict_op = dataproc_predict_op(
            project=project,
            region=region,
            cluster_name=cluster_name,
            data=transform_output_eval,
            model=train_output,
            target=target,
            analysis=analyze_output,
            output=predict_output
        ).after(_train_op).set_display_name('Predictor')

        _cm_op = confusion_matrix_op(
            predictions=os.path.join(predict_output, 'part-*.csv'),
            output_dir=output_template
        ).after(_predict_op)

        _roc_op = roc_op(
            predictions_dir=os.path.join(predict_output, 'part-*.csv'),
            true_class=true_label,
            true_score_column=true_label,
            output_dir=output_template
        ).after(_predict_op)

    dsl.get_pipeline_conf().add_op_transformer(
        gcp.use_gcp_secret('user-gcp-sa'))
```

### Pipeline input data on the Kubeflow Pipelines UI

The partial screenshot below shows the Kubeflow Pipelines UI for kicking off a 
run of the pipeline. The pipeline definition in your code determines which 
parameters appear in the UI form. The pipeline definition can also set default 
values for the parameters: 

<img src="/docs/images/pipelines-start-xgboost-run.png" 
  alt="Starting the XGBoost run on the pipelines UI"
  class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">

### Outputs from the pipeline

The following screenshots show examples of the pipeline output visible on
the Kubeflow Pipelines UI.

Prediction results:

<img src="/docs/images/predict.png" 
  alt="Prediction output"
  class="mt-3 mb-3 p-3 border border-info rounded">

Confusion matrix:

<img src="/docs/images/cm.png" 
  alt="Confusion matrix"
  class="mt-3 mb-3 p-3 border border-info rounded">

Receiver operating characteristics (ROC) curve:

<img src="/docs/images/roc.png" 
  alt="ROC"
  class="mt-3 mb-3 p-3 border border-info rounded">

## Architectural overview

<img src="/docs/images/pipelines-architecture.png" 
  alt="Pipelines architectural diagram"
  class="mt-3 mb-3 p-3 border border-info rounded">

At a high level, the execution of a pipeline proceeds as follows: 

* **Python SDK**: You create components or specify a pipeline using the Kubeflow
  Pipelines domain-specific language 
  ([DSL](https://github.com/kubeflow/pipelines/tree/master/sdk/python/kfp/dsl)).
* **DSL compiler**: The
  [DSL compiler](https://github.com/kubeflow/pipelines/tree/master/sdk/python/kfp/compiler)
  transforms your pipeline's Python code into a static configuration (YAML).
* **Pipeline Service**: You call the Pipeline Service to create a
  pipeline run from the static configuration. 
* **Kubernetes resources**: The Pipeline Service calls the Kubernetes API
  server to create the necessary Kubernetes resources
  ([CRDs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/))
  to run the pipeline.   
* **Orchestration controllers**: A set of orchestration controllers
  execute the containers needed to complete the pipeline execution specified
  by the Kubernetes resources
  ([CRDs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/)).
  The containers execute within Kubernetes Pods on virtual machines. An
  example controller is the **[Argo Workflow](https://github.com/argoproj/argo)** controller, which
  orchestrates task-driven workflows. 
* **Artifact storage**: The Pods store two kinds of data: 

  * **Metadata:** Experiments, jobs, runs, etc. Also single scalar metrics, 
    generally aggregated for the purposes of sorting and filtering. 
    Kubeflow Pipelines stores the metadata in a MySQL database.
  * **Artifacts:** Pipeline packages, views, etc. Also
    large-scale metrics like time series, usually used for investigating an 
    individual run's performance and for debugging. Kubeflow Pipelines 
    stores the artifacts in an artifact store like
    [Minio server](https://docs.minio.io/) or 
    [Cloud Storage](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/).

    The MySQL database and the Minio server are both backed by the Kubernetes
    [PersistentVolume](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/#types-of-persistent-volumes)
    (PV) subsystem. 

* **Persistence agent and ML metadata**: The Pipeline Persistence Agent
  watches the Kubernetes resources created by the Pipeline Service and
  persists the state of these resources in the ML Metadata Service. The
  Pipeline Persistence Agent records the set of containers that executed as
  well as their inputs and outputs. The input/output consists of either
  container parameters or data artifact URIs. 
* **Pipeline web server**: The Pipeline web server gathers data from various
  services to display relevant views: the list of pipelines currently running,
  the history of pipeline execution, the list of data artifacts, debugging
  information about individual pipeline runs, execution status about individual
  pipeline runs.

## Next steps

* Follow the 
  [pipelines quickstart guide](/docs/pipelines/pipelines-quickstart) to 
  deploy Kubeflow and run a sample pipeline directly from the 
  Kubeflow Pipelines UI.
* Build machine-learning pipelines with the [Kubeflow Pipelines 
  SDK](/docs/pipelines/sdk/sdk-overview/).
* Follow the full guide to experimenting with
  [the Kubeflow Pipelines samples](/docs/pipelines/tutorials/build-pipeline/).

Commit message:

add standaline install link, other cleanup

content/docs/pipelines/overview/pipelines-overview.md, after:

+++
title = "Overview of Kubeflow Pipelines"
description = "Understanding the goals and main concepts of Kubeflow Pipelines"
weight = 10
+++

{{% beta-status 
  feedbacklink="https://github.com/kubeflow/pipelines/issues" %}}

Kubeflow Pipelines is a platform for building and deploying portable, 
scalable machine learning (ML) workflows based on Docker containers.

## Quickstart

Run your first pipeline by following the 
[pipelines quickstart guide](/docs/pipelines/pipelines-quickstart).

## What is Kubeflow Pipelines?

The Kubeflow Pipelines platform consists of:

* A user interface (UI) for managing and tracking experiments, jobs, and runs.
* An engine for scheduling multi-step ML workflows.
* An SDK for defining and manipulating pipelines and components.
* Notebooks for interacting with the system using the SDK.

The following are the goals of Kubeflow Pipelines:

* End-to-end orchestration: enabling and simplifying the orchestration of
  machine learning pipelines.
* Easy experimentation: making it easy for you to try numerous ideas and 
  techniques and manage your various trials/experiments.
* Easy re-use: enabling you to re-use components and pipelines to quickly 
  create end-to-end solutions without having to rebuild each time.

Kubeflow Pipelines is available as a standalone installation and as a core Kubeflow component.
When installed with Kubeflow, Kubeflow Pipelines automatically deploys with Kubeflow.
To learn how to install Kubeflow Pipelines standalone, see the
[Kubeflow Pipelines standalone installation overview](/docs/pipelines/installation/overview/).

{{% pipelines-compatibility %}}

## What is a pipeline?

A _pipeline_ is a description of an ML workflow, including all of the components 
in the workflow and how they combine in the form of a graph. (See the
screenshot below showing an example of a pipeline graph.) The pipeline
includes the definition of the inputs (parameters) required to run the pipeline 
and the inputs and outputs of each component.

After developing your pipeline, you can upload and share it on the 
Kubeflow Pipelines UI.

A _pipeline component_ is a self-contained set of user code, packaged as a 
[Docker image](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/), that 
performs one step in the pipeline. For example, a component can be responsible
for data preprocessing, data transformation, model training, and so on.

See the conceptual guides to [pipelines](/docs/pipelines/concepts/pipeline/)
and [components](/docs/pipelines/concepts/component/).

## Example of a pipeline

The screenshots and code below show the `xgboost-training-cm.py` pipeline, which
creates an XGBoost model using structured data in CSV format. You can see the
source code and other information about the pipeline on
[GitHub](https://github.com/kubeflow/pipelines/tree/master/samples/core/xgboost_training_cm).

### The runtime execution graph of the pipeline

The screenshot below shows the example pipeline's runtime execution graph in the
Kubeflow Pipelines UI:

<img src="/docs/images/pipelines-xgboost-graph.png" 
  alt="XGBoost results on the pipelines UI"
  class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">

### The Python code that represents the pipeline

Below is an extract from the Python code that defines the 
`xgboost-training-cm.py` pipeline. You can see the full code on 
[GitHub](https://github.com/kubeflow/pipelines/tree/master/samples/core/xgboost_training_cm).

```python
@dsl.pipeline(
    name='XGBoost Trainer',
    description='A trainer that does end-to-end distributed training for XGBoost models.'
)
def xgb_train_pipeline(
    output='gs://your-gcs-bucket',
    project='your-gcp-project',
    cluster_name='xgb-%s' % dsl.RUN_ID_PLACEHOLDER,
    region='us-central1',
    train_data='gs://ml-pipeline-playground/sfpd/train.csv',
    eval_data='gs://ml-pipeline-playground/sfpd/eval.csv',
    schema='gs://ml-pipeline-playground/sfpd/schema.json',
    target='resolution',
    rounds=200,
    workers=2,
    true_label='ACTION',
):
    output_template = str(output) + '/' + dsl.RUN_ID_PLACEHOLDER + '/data'

    # Current GCP pyspark/spark op do not provide outputs as return values, instead,
    # we need to use strings to pass the uri around.
    analyze_output = output_template
    transform_output_train = os.path.join(output_template, 'train', 'part-*')
    transform_output_eval = os.path.join(output_template, 'eval', 'part-*')
    train_output = os.path.join(output_template, 'train_output')
    predict_output = os.path.join(output_template, 'predict_output')

    with dsl.ExitHandler(exit_op=dataproc_delete_cluster_op(
        project_id=project,
        region=region,
        name=cluster_name
    )):
        _create_cluster_op = dataproc_create_cluster_op(
            project_id=project,
            region=region,
            name=cluster_name,
            initialization_actions=[
              os.path.join(_PYSRC_PREFIX,
                           'initialization_actions.sh'),
            ],
            image_version='1.2'
        )

        _analyze_op = dataproc_analyze_op(
            project=project,
            region=region,
            cluster_name=cluster_name,
            schema=schema,
            train_data=train_data,
            output=output_template
        ).after(_create_cluster_op).set_display_name('Analyzer')

        _transform_op = dataproc_transform_op(
            project=project,
            region=region,
            cluster_name=cluster_name,
            train_data=train_data,
            eval_data=eval_data,
            target=target,
            analysis=analyze_output,
            output=output_template
        ).after(_analyze_op).set_display_name('Transformer')

        _train_op = dataproc_train_op(
            project=project,
            region=region,
            cluster_name=cluster_name,
            train_data=transform_output_train,
            eval_data=transform_output_eval,
            target=target,
            analysis=analyze_output,
            workers=workers,
            rounds=rounds,
            output=train_output
        ).after(_transform_op).set_display_name('Trainer')

        _predict_op = dataproc_predict_op(
            project=project,
            region=region,
            cluster_name=cluster_name,
            data=transform_output_eval,
            model=train_output,
            target=target,
            analysis=analyze_output,
            output=predict_output
        ).after(_train_op).set_display_name('Predictor')

        _cm_op = confusion_matrix_op(
            predictions=os.path.join(predict_output, 'part-*.csv'),
            output_dir=output_template
        ).after(_predict_op)

        _roc_op = roc_op(
            predictions_dir=os.path.join(predict_output, 'part-*.csv'),
            true_class=true_label,
            true_score_column=true_label,
            output_dir=output_template
        ).after(_predict_op)

    dsl.get_pipeline_conf().add_op_transformer(
        gcp.use_gcp_secret('user-gcp-sa'))
```

### Pipeline input data on the Kubeflow Pipelines UI

The partial screenshot below shows the Kubeflow Pipelines UI for kicking off a 
run of the pipeline. The pipeline definition in your code determines which 
parameters appear in the UI form. The pipeline definition can also set default 
values for the parameters: 

<img src="/docs/images/pipelines-start-xgboost-run.png" 
  alt="Starting the XGBoost run on the pipelines UI"
  class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">

### Outputs from the pipeline

The following screenshots show examples of the pipeline output visible on
the Kubeflow Pipelines UI.

Prediction results:

<img src="/docs/images/predict.png" 
  alt="Prediction output"
  class="mt-3 mb-3 p-3 border border-info rounded">

Confusion matrix:

<img src="/docs/images/cm.png" 
  alt="Confusion matrix"
  class="mt-3 mb-3 p-3 border border-info rounded">

Receiver operating characteristics (ROC) curve:

<img src="/docs/images/roc.png" 
  alt="ROC"
  class="mt-3 mb-3 p-3 border border-info rounded">

## Architectural overview

<img src="/docs/images/pipelines-architecture.png" 
  alt="Pipelines architectural diagram"
  class="mt-3 mb-3 p-3 border border-info rounded">

At a high level, the execution of a pipeline proceeds as follows: 

* **Python SDK**: You create components or specify a pipeline using the Kubeflow
  Pipelines domain-specific language 
  ([DSL](https://github.com/kubeflow/pipelines/tree/master/sdk/python/kfp/dsl)).
* **DSL compiler**: The
  [DSL compiler](https://github.com/kubeflow/pipelines/tree/master/sdk/python/kfp/compiler)
  transforms your pipeline's Python code into a static configuration (YAML).
* **Pipeline Service**: You call the Pipeline Service to create a
  pipeline run from the static configuration. 
* **Kubernetes resources**: The Pipeline Service calls the Kubernetes API
  server. The API server creates the Kubernetes resources
  ([CRDs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/)),
  specifying the pipeline execution.
* **Orchestration controllers**: A set of orchestration controllers
  execute the containers needed to complete the pipeline.
  The containers execute within Kubernetes Pods on virtual machines.
  An example controller is the
  **[Argo Workflow](https://github.com/argoproj/argo)** controller,
  which orchestrates task-driven workflows.
* **Artifact storage**: The Pods store two kinds of data: 

  * **Metadata:** Experiments, jobs, pipeline runs, and single scalar metrics.
    Metric data is aggregated for the purpose of sorting and filtering.
    Kubeflow Pipelines stores the metadata in a MySQL database.
  * **Artifacts:** Pipeline packages, views, and large-scale metrics (time series).
    Use large-scale metrics to debug a pipeline run or investigate an individual run’s performance.
    Kubeflow Pipelines stores the artifacts in an artifact store like
    [Minio server](https://docs.minio.io/) or
    [Cloud Storage](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/).

    The MySQL database and the Minio server are both backed by the Kubernetes
    [PersistentVolume](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/#types-of-persistent-volumes)
    subsystem.

* **Persistence agent and ML metadata**: The Pipeline Persistence Agent
  watches the Kubernetes resources created by the Pipeline Service and
  persists the state of these resources in the ML Metadata Service. The
  Pipeline Persistence Agent records the set of containers that executed as
  well as their inputs and outputs. The input/output consists of either
  container parameters or data artifact URIs. 
* **Pipeline web server**: The Pipeline web server gathers data from various
  services to display relevant views: the list of pipelines currently running,
  the history of pipeline execution, the list of data artifacts, debugging
  information about individual pipeline runs, execution status about individual
  pipeline runs.

## Next steps

* Follow the 
  [pipelines quickstart guide](/docs/pipelines/pipelines-quickstart) to 
  deploy Kubeflow and run a sample pipeline directly from the 
  Kubeflow Pipelines UI.
* Build machine-learning pipelines with the [Kubeflow Pipelines 
  SDK](/docs/pipelines/sdk/sdk-overview/).
* Follow the full guide to experimenting with
  [the Kubeflow Pipelines samples](/docs/pipelines/tutorials/build-pipeline/).
