content/en/docs/about/community.md, before:

+++
title = "Community"
description = "About the Kubeflow community"
weight = 4
aliases = ["/docs/community/"]
+++

In the interest of fostering an open and welcoming environment, we as
contributors and maintainers pledge to make participation in our project and
our community a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of age, body
size, disability, ethnicity, gender identity and expression, level of
experience, education, socio-economic status, nationality, personal appearance,
race, religion, or sexual identity and orientation.

The Kubeflow community is guided by our [Code of
Conduct](https://github.com/kubeflow/community/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md),
which we encourage everybody to read before participating. We hold our leaders
accountable for the guidelines in
[this document](https://github.com/kubeflow/community/blob/master/INCLUSIVITY.md).

## Welcome to all Google Summer of Code (GSoC) participants

The Kubeflow community is delighted to be part of 
**Google Summer of Code 2020**. Community
mentors look forward to working with students on their GSoC projects.

[Visit the Kubeflow GSoC page](/docs/about/gsoc/) to find handy information and
links for GSoC students and mentors.

## Community discussions

There are many ways to contribute! Join one of our communication channels, 
attend a community meeting, get to know the community, discuss updates, suggest
exciting new integrations.

### Community meetings

[**Meeting calendar**](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=kubeflow.org_7l5vnbn8suj2se10sen81d9428%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America%2FLos_Angeles) ([iCal version](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/kubeflow.org_7l5vnbn8suj2se10sen81d9428%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics)).

[Meeting notes](http://bit.ly/kf-meeting-notes).

If your group has a regular meeting, talk to
[@ewilderj](https://github.com/ewilderj) about getting it added to the calendar.

### Kubeflow community call

The project team holds a weekly community call on Tuesdays. This call alternates
weekly between US East/EMEA and US West/APAC friendly times. Joining the
[kubeflow-discuss](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kubeflow-discuss)
mailing list will automatically send you calendar invitations for the meetings, 
or you can subscribe to the community meeting calendar above.

Agenda, notes, and a reminder of the next call are sent to the kubeflow-discuss
mailing list.

<a id="slack"></a>
### Slack community and channels

The Kubeflow Slack workspace is 
[kubeflow.slack.com](https://kubeflow.slack.com/). To join, click this
[**invitation to our Slack 
workspace**](https://join.slack.com/t/kubeflow/shared_invite/zt-cpr020z4-PfcAue_2nw67~iIDy7maAQ).

The Kubeflow Slack workspace offers several channels. Here are a few examples:

| Topic                                                              | Slack channel                                                        |
| :----                                                              | :------------                                                        |
| General discussion                                                 | [#general](https://kubeflow.slack.com/messages/C7REE0EHK)            |
| Community meeting chat                                             | [#community](https://kubeflow.slack.com/messages/C8Q0QJYNB)          |
| TF Operator ([GitHub](https://github.com/kubeflow/tf-operator))    | [#tf-operator](https://kubeflow.slack.com/messages/C985VJN9F)        |
| KFServing ([GitHub](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving))        | [#kfserving](https://kubeflow.slack.com/messages/CH6E58LNP)          |
| Pipelines ([GitHub](https://github.com/kubeflow/pipelines))        | [#kubeflow-pipelines](https://kubeflow.slack.com/messages/CE10KS9M4)          |
| Examples ([GitHub](https://github.com/kubeflow/examples))          | [#kubeflow-examples](https://kubeflow.slack.com/messages/CA30Q9A4U)  |
| Documentation ([GitHub](https://github.com/kubeflow/website))      | [#website](https://kubeflow.slack.com/messages/CA4M298LD)            |
| Product management                                                 | [#product-management](https://kubeflow.slack.com/messages/CGP3DKT5E) |
| Google Summer of Code (GSoC)                                       | [#gsoc](https://kubeflow.slack.com/messages/CUF1GCJ4Q) |

### Mailing lists

The primary mailing list (email group) is 
[kubeflow-discuss](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kubeflow-discuss).

More detail about the Kubeflow mailing lists:

| Topic                                                           | Mailing list                                                                      |
| :----                                                           | :------------                                                                     |
| General discussion                                              | [kubeflow-discuss](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kubeflow-discuss)      |
| TF Operator ([GitHub](https://github.com/kubeflow/tf-operator)) | [tf-operator](https://groups.google.com/a/kubeflow.org/forum/#!forum/tf-operator) |

## Who should consider contributing to Kubeflow?

* Folks who want to add support for other ML frameworks (e.g. PyTorch, XGBoost, scikit-learn)
* Folks who want to bring more Kubernetes magic to ML (e.g. ISTIO integration for prediction)
* Folks who want to make Kubeflow a richer ML platform (e.g. support for ML pipelines, hyperparameter tuning)
* Folks who want to tune Kubeflow for their particular Kubernetes distribution or Cloud
* Folks who want to write tutorials or blog posts showing how to use Kubeflow to solve ML problems

For details on contributing please look at [the contributor's guide](/docs/about/contributing/).

Commit message:

Added outdated banner to non-index docs unchanged in last 30d
This was originally PR #2066. @RFMVasconcelos is out this week and
the PR is blocked by a merge conflict so I rebased it in order
to get it merged.

Related to: #1984

Author:    jlewi <jeremy@lewi.us>

content/en/docs/about/community.md, after:

+++
title = "Community"
description = "About the Kubeflow community"
weight = 4
aliases = ["/docs/community/"]
                    
+++
{{% alert title="Out of date" color="warning" %}}
This guide contains outdated information pertaining to Kubeflow 1.0. This guide
needs to be updated for Kubeflow 1.1.
{{% /alert %}}

In the interest of fostering an open and welcoming environment, we as
contributors and maintainers pledge to make participation in our project and
our community a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of age, body
size, disability, ethnicity, gender identity and expression, level of
experience, education, socio-economic status, nationality, personal appearance,
race, religion, or sexual identity and orientation.

The Kubeflow community is guided by our [Code of
Conduct](https://github.com/kubeflow/community/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md),
which we encourage everybody to read before participating. We hold our leaders
accountable for the guidelines in
[this document](https://github.com/kubeflow/community/blob/master/INCLUSIVITY.md).

## Welcome to all Google Summer of Code (GSoC) participants

The Kubeflow community is delighted to be part of 
**Google Summer of Code 2020**. Community
mentors look forward to working with students on their GSoC projects.

[Visit the Kubeflow GSoC page](/docs/about/gsoc/) to find handy information and
links for GSoC students and mentors.

## Community discussions

There are many ways to contribute! Join one of our communication channels, 
attend a community meeting, get to know the community, discuss updates, suggest
exciting new integrations.

### Community meetings

[**Meeting calendar**](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=kubeflow.org_7l5vnbn8suj2se10sen81d9428%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America%2FLos_Angeles) ([iCal version](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/ical/kubeflow.org_7l5vnbn8suj2se10sen81d9428%40group.calendar.google.com/public/basic.ics)).

[Meeting notes](http://bit.ly/kf-meeting-notes).

If your group has a regular meeting, talk to
[@ewilderj](https://github.com/ewilderj) about getting it added to the calendar.

### Kubeflow community call

The project team holds a weekly community call on Tuesdays. This call alternates
weekly between US East/EMEA and US West/APAC friendly times. Joining the
[kubeflow-discuss](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kubeflow-discuss)
mailing list will automatically send you calendar invitations for the meetings, 
or you can subscribe to the community meeting calendar above.

Agenda, notes, and a reminder of the next call are sent to the kubeflow-discuss
mailing list.

<a id="slack"></a>
### Slack community and channels

The Kubeflow Slack workspace is 
[kubeflow.slack.com](https://kubeflow.slack.com/). To join, click this
[**invitation to our Slack 
workspace**](https://join.slack.com/t/kubeflow/shared_invite/zt-cpr020z4-PfcAue_2nw67~iIDy7maAQ).

The Kubeflow Slack workspace offers several channels. Here are a few examples:

| Topic                                                              | Slack channel                                                        |
| :----                                                              | :------------                                                        |
| General discussion                                                 | [#general](https://kubeflow.slack.com/messages/C7REE0EHK)            |
| Community meeting chat                                             | [#community](https://kubeflow.slack.com/messages/C8Q0QJYNB)          |
| TF Operator ([GitHub](https://github.com/kubeflow/tf-operator))    | [#tf-operator](https://kubeflow.slack.com/messages/C985VJN9F)        |
| KFServing ([GitHub](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving))        | [#kfserving](https://kubeflow.slack.com/messages/CH6E58LNP)          |
| Pipelines ([GitHub](https://github.com/kubeflow/pipelines))        | [#kubeflow-pipelines](https://kubeflow.slack.com/messages/CE10KS9M4)          |
| Examples ([GitHub](https://github.com/kubeflow/examples))          | [#kubeflow-examples](https://kubeflow.slack.com/messages/CA30Q9A4U)  |
| Documentation ([GitHub](https://github.com/kubeflow/website))      | [#website](https://kubeflow.slack.com/messages/CA4M298LD)            |
| Product management                                                 | [#product-management](https://kubeflow.slack.com/messages/CGP3DKT5E) |
| Google Summer of Code (GSoC)                                       | [#gsoc](https://kubeflow.slack.com/messages/CUF1GCJ4Q) |

### Mailing lists

The primary mailing list (email group) is 
[kubeflow-discuss](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kubeflow-discuss).

More detail about the Kubeflow mailing lists:

| Topic                                                           | Mailing list                                                                      |
| :----                                                           | :------------                                                                     |
| General discussion                                              | [kubeflow-discuss](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kubeflow-discuss)      |
| TF Operator ([GitHub](https://github.com/kubeflow/tf-operator)) | [tf-operator](https://groups.google.com/a/kubeflow.org/forum/#!forum/tf-operator) |

## Who should consider contributing to Kubeflow?

* Folks who want to add support for other ML frameworks (e.g. PyTorch, XGBoost, scikit-learn)
* Folks who want to bring more Kubernetes magic to ML (e.g. ISTIO integration for prediction)
* Folks who want to make Kubeflow a richer ML platform (e.g. support for ML pipelines, hyperparameter tuning)
* Folks who want to tune Kubeflow for their particular Kubernetes distribution or Cloud
* Folks who want to write tutorials or blog posts showing how to use Kubeflow to solve ML problems

For details on contributing please look at [the contributor's guide](/docs/about/contributing/).
