content/en/docs/about/events.md, before:

+++
title = "Events Calendar"
description = "Events related to Kubeflow"
weight = 10
aliases = ["/docs/events/"]
+++

This is a nonexhaustive list of events (in reverse chronological order) with talks and workshops about Kubeflow.
Please edit this page and send a pull request, or raise a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/kubeflow/website/issues/new), if something is missing or incorrect.

* [Kubeflow Doc Sprint - Sunnyvale and online](https://github.com/kubeflow/website/wiki/Kubeflow-Doc-Sprint),
  10-12 February 2020
  - *Monday 10 February:* Welcome; docs/code development; learning sessions.
  - *Tuesday 11 February:* Sprint updates; docs/code development; learning sessions.
  - *Wednesday 12 February:* Docs/code development; sprint demos.
* Kubeflow Doc Sprint, 10-12 July 2019. See the [results of the July 2019 doc sprint](https://medium.com/kubeflow/kubeflow-doc-sprint-its-a-wrap-2683bfd4078d).
* [Google Cloud Next, San Francisco](https://cloud.withgoogle.com/next/sf), 9-11 April, 2019
  - [Undoing Human Bias at Scale With Kubeflow](https://cloud.withgoogle.com/next/sf/sessions?session=MLAI206): John Bohannon, Michelle Casbon
* [Kubeflow Contributor Summit 2019](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14Jr79aWVjsJg8xq38CLVE4rKRwM1_-gHLuxhGAhrGTI/edit?usp=sharing), Sunnyvale, CA, 12-13 March, 2019
  - Kubeflow and the ML Landscape: Jeremy Lewi, Google
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1kJtBNOLHI8bR7z5OVUNDQHUBJ0K7ayGPwP4UQezMAoA/edit?usp=sharing)
  - Updates from the PM Working Group:
      - PMs: David Aronchick, Josh Bottum, Carmine Rimi
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/100GXMDDKDyiANSZnvIN_l5kCNxKnsOOcTLq-34-OaJc/edit?usp=sharing)
  - Building Together: Community in Kubeflow: Thea Lamkin, Google
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1kEOkz82lUJEfr0GrfDLnTN-g7D1NaFyvqBAzuEDjce8/edit?usp=sharing)
  - Experiment Tracking with Kubeflow, Lukas Biewald, Weights & Biases
      - [Slides](https://drive.google.com/a/kubeflow.org/file/d/1JEqNlDHk9LKe8QZ0lUQc7X09Y_59Zyga/view?usp=sharing)
  - Multi-User Environments, Kam Kasravi & Ebi Shahbazi, Intel
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1xoqu189q54sAXRTQ-Ise3_T09JLkQxVBGe5lCFy4UsE/edit?usp=sharing)
  - On-Premise: Debo Dutta, Cisco
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1cphcFf4qszQ9PxcEnYkF0pkY3AZEQiEEjs8cso2KJjE/edit?usp=sharing)
  - MiniKF: Local Kubeflow: Vangelis Koukis, Arrikto
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ftOhRZtpIF3Iy-2R6z9kwgS3KMUtIFnvA1LHHEyxsp8/edit?usp=sharing)
  - TensorFlow 2.0 is coming!: Paige Bailey, Google
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1G0BE7tvhsCzZn2uaxEZsoosEZyXkjN8CnB3uHvLpiC0/edit?usp=sharing)
  - Overview of Kubeflow Pipelines: Pavel Dournov, Google
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1aMmJUz7r7Toky4nGZ1bItWKfXW4kSMbs4cofFeyKE-M/edit?usp=sharing)
  - Feast: Feature Storage for Machine Learning: Tim Sell, Google
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1k2FrlIyob3UfzvzxJ7B8YI9H3dx8B-LTDqCH_FESYCA/edit?usp=sharing)
  - Understanding the Earth: Machine Learning with Kubeflow Pipelines: Faustine Li, Descartes Labs
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/17KeqJmoKM0hBnXDiC5X2qEPutX08TmL56RyTWMbQ34w/edit?usp=sharing)
  - Kubeflow Experiments at LinkedIn: Tengfei Mu & Abin Shahab, LinkedIn
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1bnVZXCvNKOtmqCIMefT2QZCQb62_P0pwBa3PBachNus/edit?usp=sharing)
  - Ask the User: Data Science Panel, Moderator: Karthik Ramasamy, Google
      - Panelists: Ting Chen, Emmanuel Ameisen, Scott Leishman, Caio Soares, June Andrews, Jun Wang
  - Simple, GPU-Accelerated Kubeflow Pipeline: Ananth Sankarasubramanian, NVIDIA
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1B84ix3Dq_s-vj0wRagKGEUtyT4Euhr_siY8oCG-zW1w/edit?usp=sharing)
  - Fairing: Matt Rickard, Google
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1-gqS-HxMpMd2Kv5-W1_i2TQuXO8O_oM1mL0s-7I2-bA/edit?usp=sharing)
  - ModelDB: Open-source model management: Manasi Vartak, Verta.ai
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ri_GrTNyz1XScbaK5f1isvSeA8pGpURg7lmghv8h4Yw/edit?usp=sharing)
  - Katib & Hyperparameter Tuning: Richard Liu, Google
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1QbF8naUIHHHvOWKq7uA-DP_jmADbgep8nfjOC_zG_JQ/edit?usp=sharing)
  - Kubeflow User Experience: Derek Ferguson, JP Morgan Chase
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1l4zZVisA1xG1Ty1TNZrWFnDbY9YZ3tZ1TkLe6UqUSXk/edit?usp=sharing)
  - Kubeflow & TFX: Kevin Haas, Google
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1j4q7AkMs2Pz-9VFmE2vKOanqrR7NFIkN22ObJ_7DVm0/edit?usp=sharing)
  - Kubeflow inference on Knative: Dan Sun, Bloomberg
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1sApAPkBWEKBVB5KZCJKHAcsy8Ry2TLzTnGLbpN6EiXA/edit?usp=sharing)
  - Arena: Yang Che, Alibaba
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1mZ6pjgUYt0LhGN8E-zCM1FE-3GNbtK8Y6NlVeD1WahY/edit?usp=sharing)
      - [Demo video](https://drive.google.com/a/kubeflow.org/file/d/1ITkcf9YvYDJ9KiRlNWOHmMEFOe2DeMGi/view?usp=sharing)
  - Examples, Codelabs, & Demos: Michelle Casbon, Google
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1h001JfBUaAjoPTrHpbuVRNJtrO1jWRMG_YRDzL2Pd3I/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Data Day Texas, Austin](https://datadaytexas.com/), 26 January, 2019
  - [Kubeflow: Portable Machine Learning on Kubernetes](https://datadaytexas.com/2019/sessions#casbon): Michelle Casbon
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1PvtKTw3KNbGurNymDddbsmEfLQd9cOfjbpDQ-2DSNd8)
* [AI NEXTCon, Seattle](http://aisea19.xnextcon.com/), 23-26 January, 2019
  - [Build and Manage Machine Learning Pipelines](http://aisea19.xnextcon.com/talkabstract.html#ws-kubeflow): Amy Unruh
* [KubeCon, Seattle](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/kubecon-cloudnativecon-north-america-2018/), 11-13 December, 2018
  - [Deep Dive: Kubeflow BoF](https://sched.co/Ha1X): Jeremy Lewi, David Aronchick
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1QP-o4O3ygpJ6aVfu6lAm0tMWYhAvdKE9FD6_92DB3EY)
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gbZJ8eSIfJg)
  - [Eco-Friendly ML: How the Kubeflow Ecosystem Bootstrapped Itself](https://sched.co/GrTc): Peter McKinnon
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1DUJHiYxz0D6qexBbNGjtRHYi4ERTKUOZ-LvqoHVKS-E)
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EVSfp8HGJXY)
  - [Machine Learning as Code](https://sched.co/GrVh): Jay Smith
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1XKyf5fAM9KfF4OSnZREoDu-BP8JBtGkuSv72iX7CARY)
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VXrGp5er1ZE)
  - [Natural Language Code Search for GitHub Using Kubeflow](https://sched.co/GrVn): Jeremy Lewi, Hamel Husain
      - [Slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1jHE61fAqZNgaDrpItk5L_tCzLU0DuL86rCz4yAKz4Ss)
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SF77UBvfTHU)
  - [Workshop: Kubeflow End-to-End: GitHub Issue Summarization](https://sched.co/GrWE): Amy Unruh, Michelle Casbon
      - [Codelab](https://g.co/codelabs/kubecon18)
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1FFftSbWidin3opCIl4U0HVPvS6xk17izUFrrMR7e5qk)
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UdthJEq8YsA)
* [Women in ML & Data Science](https://www.meetup.com/Melbourne-Women-in-Machine-Learning-and-Data-Science/), Melbourne, 5 December, 2018
  - [Panel](https://www.meetup.com/Melbourne-Women-in-Machine-Learning-and-Data-Science/events/256563019/): Michelle Casbon
* [YOW!, Melbourne](https://melbourne.yowconference.com.au/), 4-7 December, 2018
  - [Kubeflow Explained: NLP Architectures on Kubernetes](https://melbourne.yowconference.com.au/proposal/?id=6858): Michelle Casbon
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1lXs1B4xrXTK2QiVe5rJSPCQjTdyMDfNVJcZCLh-Bcu0)
* [YOW!, Brisbane](https://brisbane.yowconference.com.au/), 3-4 December, 2018
  - [Kubeflow Explained: NLP Architectures on Kubernetes](https://brisbane.yowconference.com.au/proposal/?id=6859): Michelle Casbon
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1lXs1B4xrXTK2QiVe5rJSPCQjTdyMDfNVJcZCLh-Bcu0)
* [YOW!, Sydney](https://sydney.yowconference.com.au/), 27-30 November, 2018
  - [Kubeflow Explained: NLP Architectures on Kubernetes](https://sydney.yowconference.com.au/proposal/?id=6860): Michelle Casbon
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1lXs1B4xrXTK2QiVe5rJSPCQjTdyMDfNVJcZCLh-Bcu0)
* [Scale By the Bay, San Francisco](http://scale.bythebay.io/), 15-17 November, 2018
  - [Data Engineering & AI Panel](https://sched.co/Fndz): Michelle Casbon
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sJd9RRmgCH4)
* [KubeCon, Shanghai](https://www.lfasiallc.com/events/kubecon-cloudnativecon-china-2018/), 13-15 November, 2018
  - [A Tale of Using Kubeflow to Make the Electricity Smarter in China](https://sched.co/FzGn): Julia Han, Xin Zhang
      - [Slides](https://schd.ws/hosted_files/kccncchina2018english/34/XinZhang_JuliaHan_En.pdf)
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fad1FsfEvNY)
  - [A Year of Democratizing ML With Kubernetes & Kubeflow](https://sched.co/FuLr): David Aronchick, Fei Xue
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ZuZs32CFPYZ9ub8o8whSK8SA2333UjtAVujRnKJTf2M)
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oMlddDdJgEg)
  - [Benchmarking Machine Learning Workloads on Kubeflow](https://sched.co/FuJw): Xinyuan Huang, Ce Gao
      - [Slides](https://schd.ws/hosted_files/kccncchina2018english/22/Kubebench_KubeCon2018China.pdf)
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9sLRIBYYUlQ)
  - [CI/CD Pipelines & Machine Learning](https://sched.co/FuJo): Jeremy Lewi
      - [Slides](https://schd.ws/hosted_files/kccncchina2018english/ee/KubeConChina2018.pdf)
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EH850bIQVag)
  - [Kubeflow From the End User's Perspective](https://sched.co/FuJx): Xin Zhang
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x0CKhyoV9aI)
  - [Kubernetes CI/CD Hacks with KicroK8s and Kubeflow](https://sched.co/FuJc): Land Lu, Zhang Lei Mao
      - [Slides](https://schd.ws/hosted_files/kccncchina2018english/0a/Kubecon%20Shanghai%20-%20CICD%20Hacks_Canonical.pdf)
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1SSvS2w5OMQ)
  - [Machine Learning on Kubernetes BoF](https://sched.co/FuJs): David Aronchick
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0eEAZ7lmLbo)
  - [Operating Deep Learning Pipelines Anywhere Using Kubeflow](https://sched.co/FuJt): Jörg Schad, Gilbert Song
      - [Slides](https://schd.ws/hosted_files/kccncchina2018english/fe/Kubecon%20KubeFlow%2B%2B%20Summit.pdf)
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=63HJgZK27mU)
* [DevFest, Seattle](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/devfest-seattle-2018-tickets-50408043816), 3 November, 2018
  - Kubeflow End to End: Amy Unruh
* [Data@Scale, Boston](https://dataatscale2018.splashthat.com/), 25 October, 2018
  - [Women in Engineering Panel](https://datascalewomensbreakfast.splashthat.com/): Michelle Casbon
  - [Kubeflow: Portable Machine Learning on Kubernetes](https://code.fb.com/core-data/data-scale-boston/): Michelle Casbon
      - [Video](https://www.facebook.com/atscaleevents/videos/114311602829170/)
* [Kafka Summit, San Francisco](https://kafka-summit.org/), 16-17 October, 2018
* [O’Reilly AI Conference, London](https://conferences.oreilly.com/artificial-intelligence/ai-eu), 08-11 October, 2018
  - [Machine Learning at Scale with Kubernetes](https://conferences.oreilly.com/artificial-intelligence/ai-eu/public/schedule/detail/69194): Chris Cho
* Cloud-Native, Docker, and Kubernetes Summit, Dallas, 12 September, 2018
  - [Deploying Machine Learning Workloads in Kubernetes clusters that support GPUs](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/kubernetes-classes-at-cloud-native-docker-k8s-summit-tickets-44954443952): Michael Iatrou
* [O’Reilly Strata Data, New York](https://conferences.oreilly.com/strata/strata-ny), 11-13 September, 2018
  - [From Training to Serving: Deploying TensorFlow Models with Kubernetes](https://conferences.oreilly.com/strata/strata-ny/public/schedule/detail/69362): Brian Foo, Holden Karau, Jay Smith
  - [Kubeflow Explained: Portable Machine Learning on Kubernetes](https://conferences.oreilly.com/strata/strata-ny/public/schedule/detail/69041): Michelle Casbon
* [O'Reilly AI Conference, San Francisco](https://conferences.oreilly.com/artificial-intelligence/ai-ca), 4-7 September, 2018
  - [TensorFlow Days: Kubeflow: Portable Machine Learning on Kubernetes](https://conferences.oreilly.com/artificial-intelligence/ai-ca/public/schedule/topic/2899): Michelle Casbon
* [Open Source Summit, Vancouver](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/open-source-summit-north-america-2018/), 29-31 August, 2018
  - [Elastic AI Pipeline with Kubeflow for Intelligent SKU Management in a Large Chinese Retailer](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/open-source-summit-north-america-2018/program/schedule/): Xin Zhang
  - [Introducing Kubeflow: A System for Deploying ML/AI on
    Kubernetes](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/open-source-summit-north-america-2018/program/schedule/): Trevor Grant, Holden Karau
* [JupyterCon, New York](https://conferences.oreilly.com/jupyter/jup-ny), 21-25 August, 2018
  - [Machine Learning at Scale with Kubernetes](https://conferences.oreilly.com/jupyter/jup-ny/public/schedule/detail/69752): Chris Cho
* [Google Next, San Francisco](https://cloud.withgoogle.com/next18/sf/), 24-26 July, 2018
  - AI Platform Showcase demo: Dan Sanche
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=el7cw-nVcBE)
  - [Machine Learning Made Easy: How to Build Flexible, Portable ML Stacks with Kubeflow and Elastifile](https://cloud.withgoogle.com/next18/sf/sessions/session/193227): David Aronchick, Allon Cohen
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NAqD6siHcpE)
  - [Spotlight Lab: Introduction to Kubeflow on Google Kubernetes Engine](https://cloud.withgoogle.com/next18/sf/sessions/session/229041): Michelle Casbon
      - [Codelab](https://codelabs.developers.google.com/codelabs/kubeflow-introduction/index.html)
  - [Spotlight Lab: Kubeflow End-to-End: GitHub Issue Summarization](https://cloud.withgoogle.com/next18/sf/sessions/session/229637): Michelle Casbon
      - [Codelab](https://codelabs.developers.google.com/codelabs/cloud-kubeflow-e2e-gis/index.html)
* [O'Reilly Open Source Convention, Portland](https://conferences.oreilly.com/oscon/oscon-or-2018), 16-19 July, 2018
  - [TensorFlow Day: Hassle-free, scalable machine learning with Kubeflow](https://conferences.oreilly.com/oscon/oscon-or/public/schedule/detail/70899): Barbara Fusinska
* [SciPy, Austin](https://scipy2018.scipy.org/ehome/index26ac.html?eventid=299527&tabid=712461&cid=2233540&sessionid=21618893&sessionchoice=1&%26), 09-15 July, 2018
  - Kubeflow: Pythonic Machine Learning at Scale on Kubernetes: David Aronchick, Paige Bailey
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b_CvqzmB51M)
* [Container Day, Paris](https://paris-container-day.fr/en/), 26 June, 2018
  - [Keynote: Cloud Native ML with Kubeflow](http://paris-container-day.fr/en/#tabidff38a849e758226764f1da33f5bd81e3): David Aronchick, Chris Cho
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rcC11EZdo8Y)
* [Dockercon, San Francisco](https://2018.dockercon.com/), 12 - 15 June, 2018
  - [Keynote: Moby's Cool Hacks](https://dockercon18.smarteventscloud.com/connect/sessionDetail.ww?SESSION_ID=224348): David Aronchick, Michelle Casbon
      - [Video](https://youtu.be/RnWXOAplvjY?t=1128)
* [QCon, São Paulo](https://qconsp.com/sp2018/schedule/tabular.html), 9-11 May, 2018
  - [Architecture of an NLP Deployment](https://qconsp.com/sp2018/sp2018/presentation/architecture-nlp-deployment.html): Michelle Casbon
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SbecYkirt8w&t=1975)
* [KubeCon, Copenhagen](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/kubecon-cloudnativecon-europe-2018/), 2-4 May, 2018
  - Interview: Building applications on Kubeflow: Jeremy Lewi
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VTGH9ocdVM0)
  - [Keynote: Cloud Native ML on Kubernetes](https://kccnceu18.sched.com/event/Duoq/keynote-cloud-native-ml-on-kubernetes-david-aronchick-product-manager-cloud-ai-and-co-founder-of-kubeflow-google-vishnu-kannan-sr-software-engineer-google-slides-attached): David Aronchick, Vishnu Kannan
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I6iMznIYwM8)
      - [Slides](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1_QxDZXX-sSP8llFZQ6T2zseZOcPFuVLk/view?usp=sharing)
  - [Kubeflow Deep Dive](https://kccnceu18.sched.com/event/Drnd/kubeflow-deep-dive-david-aronchick-jeremy-lewi-google-intermediate-skill-level): David Aronchick, Jeremy Lewi
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86GD1VzSnks)
      - [Slides](https://www.google.com/url?q=https%3A%2F%2Fschd.ws%2Fhosted_files%2Fkccnceu18%2Fd4%2FKubeflow_Deep_Dive.pdf&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNFK_-mkyWfKAFM9wnywPVYH9thoYw)
  - [Kubeflow Intro](https://kccnceu18.sched.com/event/Drmt/kubeflow-intro-michal-jastrzebski-ala-raddaoui-intel-any-skill-level-slides-attached): Michał Jastrzębski, Ala Raddaoui
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NrDpQks0e98)
      - [Slides](https://schd.ws/hosted_files/kccnceu18/9f/kubeflow-intro.pdf)
  - [Serving ML Models at Scale with Seldon & Kubeflow](https://kccnceu18.sched.com/event/Dqvw/serving-ml-models-at-scale-with-seldon-and-kubeflow-clive-cox-seldonio-intermediate-skill-level-slides-attached): Clive Cox
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pDlapGtecbY)
      - [Slides](https://schd.ws/hosted_files/kccnceu18/1a/SeldonKubeconEurope2018.pdf)
  - [Conquering a Kubeflow Kubernetes Cluster with ksonnet, Ark, & Sonobuoy](https://kccnceu18.sched.com/event/Dqv6/conquering-a-kubeflow-kubernetes-cluster-with-ksonnet-ark-and-sonobuoy-kris-nova-heptio-david-aronchick-google-intermediate-skill-level): David Aronchick, Kris Nova
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=givpqZ2IchI)
  - [Building ML Products with Kubeflow](https://kccnceu18.sched.com/event/Dquu/building-ml-products-with-kubeflow-jeremy-lewi-google-stephan-fabel-canonical-intermediate-skill-level-slides-attached): Jeremy Lewi, Stephan Fabel
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sC8Ce9vUggo)
      - [Slides](https://schd.ws/hosted_files/kccnceu18/c2/Building%20ML%20Products%20With%20Kubeflow%20%28Kubecon%202018%29%20%281%29.pdf)
  - [Compliant Data Management & Machine Learning on Kubernetes](https://kccnceu18.sched.com/event/DqvC/compliant-data-management-and-machine-learning-on-kubernetes-daniel-whitenack-pachyderm-intermediate-skill-level-slides-attached): Daniel Whitenack
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eOzl-LFqYFM)
      - [Slides](https://schd.ws/hosted_files/kccnceu18/a1/KubeCon_EU_2018%20%281%29.pdf)
  - [Bringing Your Data Pipeline into the Machine Learning Era](https://kccnceu18.sched.com/event/E46y/bringing-your-data-pipeline-into-the-machine-learning-era-chris-gaun-jorg-schad-mesosphere-intermediate-skill-level): Chris Gaun, Jörg Schad
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_-3rQoudnc)
* [KubeCon, Austin](http://events17.linuxfoundation.org/events/kubecon-and-cloudnativecon-north-america), 6-8 December, 2017
  - ["Hot Dog or Not Hot Dog" at Scale - Kubernetes & Machine Learning](https://kccncna17.sched.com/event/CU5v/hot-dogs-or-not-at-scale-with-kubernetes-i-vish-kannan-david-aronchick-google): David Aronchick, Vishnu Kannan
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R3dVF5wWz-g&feature=youtu.be)

Commit message:

Added outdated banner to non-index docs unchanged in last 30d (#2072)
This was originally PR #2066. @RFMVasconcelos is out this week and
the PR is blocked by a merge conflict so I rebased it in order
to get it merged.

Related to: #1984

Author:    jlewi <jeremy@lewi.us>

content/en/docs/about/events.md, after:

+++
title = "Events Calendar"
description = "Events related to Kubeflow"
weight = 10
aliases = ["/docs/events/"]
                    
+++
{{% alert title="Out of date" color="warning" %}}
This guide contains outdated information pertaining to Kubeflow 1.0. This guide
needs to be updated for Kubeflow 1.1.
{{% /alert %}}

This is a nonexhaustive list of events (in reverse chronological order) with talks and workshops about Kubeflow.
Please edit this page and send a pull request, or raise a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/kubeflow/website/issues/new), if something is missing or incorrect.

* [Kubeflow Doc Sprint - Sunnyvale and online](https://github.com/kubeflow/website/wiki/Kubeflow-Doc-Sprint),
  10-12 February 2020
  - *Monday 10 February:* Welcome; docs/code development; learning sessions.
  - *Tuesday 11 February:* Sprint updates; docs/code development; learning sessions.
  - *Wednesday 12 February:* Docs/code development; sprint demos.
* Kubeflow Doc Sprint, 10-12 July 2019. See the [results of the July 2019 doc sprint](https://medium.com/kubeflow/kubeflow-doc-sprint-its-a-wrap-2683bfd4078d).
* [Google Cloud Next, San Francisco](https://cloud.withgoogle.com/next/sf), 9-11 April, 2019
  - [Undoing Human Bias at Scale With Kubeflow](https://cloud.withgoogle.com/next/sf/sessions?session=MLAI206): John Bohannon, Michelle Casbon
* [Kubeflow Contributor Summit 2019](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14Jr79aWVjsJg8xq38CLVE4rKRwM1_-gHLuxhGAhrGTI/edit?usp=sharing), Sunnyvale, CA, 12-13 March, 2019
  - Kubeflow and the ML Landscape: Jeremy Lewi, Google
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1kJtBNOLHI8bR7z5OVUNDQHUBJ0K7ayGPwP4UQezMAoA/edit?usp=sharing)
  - Updates from the PM Working Group:
      - PMs: David Aronchick, Josh Bottum, Carmine Rimi
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/100GXMDDKDyiANSZnvIN_l5kCNxKnsOOcTLq-34-OaJc/edit?usp=sharing)
  - Building Together: Community in Kubeflow: Thea Lamkin, Google
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1kEOkz82lUJEfr0GrfDLnTN-g7D1NaFyvqBAzuEDjce8/edit?usp=sharing)
  - Experiment Tracking with Kubeflow, Lukas Biewald, Weights & Biases
      - [Slides](https://drive.google.com/a/kubeflow.org/file/d/1JEqNlDHk9LKe8QZ0lUQc7X09Y_59Zyga/view?usp=sharing)
  - Multi-User Environments, Kam Kasravi & Ebi Shahbazi, Intel
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1xoqu189q54sAXRTQ-Ise3_T09JLkQxVBGe5lCFy4UsE/edit?usp=sharing)
  - On-Premise: Debo Dutta, Cisco
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1cphcFf4qszQ9PxcEnYkF0pkY3AZEQiEEjs8cso2KJjE/edit?usp=sharing)
  - MiniKF: Local Kubeflow: Vangelis Koukis, Arrikto
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ftOhRZtpIF3Iy-2R6z9kwgS3KMUtIFnvA1LHHEyxsp8/edit?usp=sharing)
  - TensorFlow 2.0 is coming!: Paige Bailey, Google
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1G0BE7tvhsCzZn2uaxEZsoosEZyXkjN8CnB3uHvLpiC0/edit?usp=sharing)
  - Overview of Kubeflow Pipelines: Pavel Dournov, Google
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1aMmJUz7r7Toky4nGZ1bItWKfXW4kSMbs4cofFeyKE-M/edit?usp=sharing)
  - Feast: Feature Storage for Machine Learning: Tim Sell, Google
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1k2FrlIyob3UfzvzxJ7B8YI9H3dx8B-LTDqCH_FESYCA/edit?usp=sharing)
  - Understanding the Earth: Machine Learning with Kubeflow Pipelines: Faustine Li, Descartes Labs
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/17KeqJmoKM0hBnXDiC5X2qEPutX08TmL56RyTWMbQ34w/edit?usp=sharing)
  - Kubeflow Experiments at LinkedIn: Tengfei Mu & Abin Shahab, LinkedIn
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1bnVZXCvNKOtmqCIMefT2QZCQb62_P0pwBa3PBachNus/edit?usp=sharing)
  - Ask the User: Data Science Panel, Moderator: Karthik Ramasamy, Google
      - Panelists: Ting Chen, Emmanuel Ameisen, Scott Leishman, Caio Soares, June Andrews, Jun Wang
  - Simple, GPU-Accelerated Kubeflow Pipeline: Ananth Sankarasubramanian, NVIDIA
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1B84ix3Dq_s-vj0wRagKGEUtyT4Euhr_siY8oCG-zW1w/edit?usp=sharing)
  - Fairing: Matt Rickard, Google
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1-gqS-HxMpMd2Kv5-W1_i2TQuXO8O_oM1mL0s-7I2-bA/edit?usp=sharing)
  - ModelDB: Open-source model management: Manasi Vartak, Verta.ai
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ri_GrTNyz1XScbaK5f1isvSeA8pGpURg7lmghv8h4Yw/edit?usp=sharing)
  - Katib & Hyperparameter Tuning: Richard Liu, Google
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1QbF8naUIHHHvOWKq7uA-DP_jmADbgep8nfjOC_zG_JQ/edit?usp=sharing)
  - Kubeflow User Experience: Derek Ferguson, JP Morgan Chase
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1l4zZVisA1xG1Ty1TNZrWFnDbY9YZ3tZ1TkLe6UqUSXk/edit?usp=sharing)
  - Kubeflow & TFX: Kevin Haas, Google
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1j4q7AkMs2Pz-9VFmE2vKOanqrR7NFIkN22ObJ_7DVm0/edit?usp=sharing)
  - Kubeflow inference on Knative: Dan Sun, Bloomberg
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1sApAPkBWEKBVB5KZCJKHAcsy8Ry2TLzTnGLbpN6EiXA/edit?usp=sharing)
  - Arena: Yang Che, Alibaba
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1mZ6pjgUYt0LhGN8E-zCM1FE-3GNbtK8Y6NlVeD1WahY/edit?usp=sharing)
      - [Demo video](https://drive.google.com/a/kubeflow.org/file/d/1ITkcf9YvYDJ9KiRlNWOHmMEFOe2DeMGi/view?usp=sharing)
  - Examples, Codelabs, & Demos: Michelle Casbon, Google
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1h001JfBUaAjoPTrHpbuVRNJtrO1jWRMG_YRDzL2Pd3I/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Data Day Texas, Austin](https://datadaytexas.com/), 26 January, 2019
  - [Kubeflow: Portable Machine Learning on Kubernetes](https://datadaytexas.com/2019/sessions#casbon): Michelle Casbon
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1PvtKTw3KNbGurNymDddbsmEfLQd9cOfjbpDQ-2DSNd8)
* [AI NEXTCon, Seattle](http://aisea19.xnextcon.com/), 23-26 January, 2019
  - [Build and Manage Machine Learning Pipelines](http://aisea19.xnextcon.com/talkabstract.html#ws-kubeflow): Amy Unruh
* [KubeCon, Seattle](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/kubecon-cloudnativecon-north-america-2018/), 11-13 December, 2018
  - [Deep Dive: Kubeflow BoF](https://sched.co/Ha1X): Jeremy Lewi, David Aronchick
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1QP-o4O3ygpJ6aVfu6lAm0tMWYhAvdKE9FD6_92DB3EY)
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gbZJ8eSIfJg)
  - [Eco-Friendly ML: How the Kubeflow Ecosystem Bootstrapped Itself](https://sched.co/GrTc): Peter McKinnon
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1DUJHiYxz0D6qexBbNGjtRHYi4ERTKUOZ-LvqoHVKS-E)
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EVSfp8HGJXY)
  - [Machine Learning as Code](https://sched.co/GrVh): Jay Smith
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1XKyf5fAM9KfF4OSnZREoDu-BP8JBtGkuSv72iX7CARY)
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VXrGp5er1ZE)
  - [Natural Language Code Search for GitHub Using Kubeflow](https://sched.co/GrVn): Jeremy Lewi, Hamel Husain
      - [Slides](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1jHE61fAqZNgaDrpItk5L_tCzLU0DuL86rCz4yAKz4Ss)
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SF77UBvfTHU)
  - [Workshop: Kubeflow End-to-End: GitHub Issue Summarization](https://sched.co/GrWE): Amy Unruh, Michelle Casbon
      - [Codelab](https://g.co/codelabs/kubecon18)
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1FFftSbWidin3opCIl4U0HVPvS6xk17izUFrrMR7e5qk)
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UdthJEq8YsA)
* [Women in ML & Data Science](https://www.meetup.com/Melbourne-Women-in-Machine-Learning-and-Data-Science/), Melbourne, 5 December, 2018
  - [Panel](https://www.meetup.com/Melbourne-Women-in-Machine-Learning-and-Data-Science/events/256563019/): Michelle Casbon
* [YOW!, Melbourne](https://melbourne.yowconference.com.au/), 4-7 December, 2018
  - [Kubeflow Explained: NLP Architectures on Kubernetes](https://melbourne.yowconference.com.au/proposal/?id=6858): Michelle Casbon
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1lXs1B4xrXTK2QiVe5rJSPCQjTdyMDfNVJcZCLh-Bcu0)
* [YOW!, Brisbane](https://brisbane.yowconference.com.au/), 3-4 December, 2018
  - [Kubeflow Explained: NLP Architectures on Kubernetes](https://brisbane.yowconference.com.au/proposal/?id=6859): Michelle Casbon
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1lXs1B4xrXTK2QiVe5rJSPCQjTdyMDfNVJcZCLh-Bcu0)
* [YOW!, Sydney](https://sydney.yowconference.com.au/), 27-30 November, 2018
  - [Kubeflow Explained: NLP Architectures on Kubernetes](https://sydney.yowconference.com.au/proposal/?id=6860): Michelle Casbon
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1lXs1B4xrXTK2QiVe5rJSPCQjTdyMDfNVJcZCLh-Bcu0)
* [Scale By the Bay, San Francisco](http://scale.bythebay.io/), 15-17 November, 2018
  - [Data Engineering & AI Panel](https://sched.co/Fndz): Michelle Casbon
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sJd9RRmgCH4)
* [KubeCon, Shanghai](https://www.lfasiallc.com/events/kubecon-cloudnativecon-china-2018/), 13-15 November, 2018
  - [A Tale of Using Kubeflow to Make the Electricity Smarter in China](https://sched.co/FzGn): Julia Han, Xin Zhang
      - [Slides](https://schd.ws/hosted_files/kccncchina2018english/34/XinZhang_JuliaHan_En.pdf)
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fad1FsfEvNY)
  - [A Year of Democratizing ML With Kubernetes & Kubeflow](https://sched.co/FuLr): David Aronchick, Fei Xue
      - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ZuZs32CFPYZ9ub8o8whSK8SA2333UjtAVujRnKJTf2M)
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oMlddDdJgEg)
  - [Benchmarking Machine Learning Workloads on Kubeflow](https://sched.co/FuJw): Xinyuan Huang, Ce Gao
      - [Slides](https://schd.ws/hosted_files/kccncchina2018english/22/Kubebench_KubeCon2018China.pdf)
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9sLRIBYYUlQ)
  - [CI/CD Pipelines & Machine Learning](https://sched.co/FuJo): Jeremy Lewi
      - [Slides](https://schd.ws/hosted_files/kccncchina2018english/ee/KubeConChina2018.pdf)
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EH850bIQVag)
  - [Kubeflow From the End User's Perspective](https://sched.co/FuJx): Xin Zhang
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x0CKhyoV9aI)
  - [Kubernetes CI/CD Hacks with KicroK8s and Kubeflow](https://sched.co/FuJc): Land Lu, Zhang Lei Mao
      - [Slides](https://schd.ws/hosted_files/kccncchina2018english/0a/Kubecon%20Shanghai%20-%20CICD%20Hacks_Canonical.pdf)
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1SSvS2w5OMQ)
  - [Machine Learning on Kubernetes BoF](https://sched.co/FuJs): David Aronchick
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0eEAZ7lmLbo)
  - [Operating Deep Learning Pipelines Anywhere Using Kubeflow](https://sched.co/FuJt): Jörg Schad, Gilbert Song
      - [Slides](https://schd.ws/hosted_files/kccncchina2018english/fe/Kubecon%20KubeFlow%2B%2B%20Summit.pdf)
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=63HJgZK27mU)
* [DevFest, Seattle](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/devfest-seattle-2018-tickets-50408043816), 3 November, 2018
  - Kubeflow End to End: Amy Unruh
* [Data@Scale, Boston](https://dataatscale2018.splashthat.com/), 25 October, 2018
  - [Women in Engineering Panel](https://datascalewomensbreakfast.splashthat.com/): Michelle Casbon
  - [Kubeflow: Portable Machine Learning on Kubernetes](https://code.fb.com/core-data/data-scale-boston/): Michelle Casbon
      - [Video](https://www.facebook.com/atscaleevents/videos/114311602829170/)
* [Kafka Summit, San Francisco](https://kafka-summit.org/), 16-17 October, 2018
* [O’Reilly AI Conference, London](https://conferences.oreilly.com/artificial-intelligence/ai-eu), 08-11 October, 2018
  - [Machine Learning at Scale with Kubernetes](https://conferences.oreilly.com/artificial-intelligence/ai-eu/public/schedule/detail/69194): Chris Cho
* Cloud-Native, Docker, and Kubernetes Summit, Dallas, 12 September, 2018
  - [Deploying Machine Learning Workloads in Kubernetes clusters that support GPUs](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/kubernetes-classes-at-cloud-native-docker-k8s-summit-tickets-44954443952): Michael Iatrou
* [O’Reilly Strata Data, New York](https://conferences.oreilly.com/strata/strata-ny), 11-13 September, 2018
  - [From Training to Serving: Deploying TensorFlow Models with Kubernetes](https://conferences.oreilly.com/strata/strata-ny/public/schedule/detail/69362): Brian Foo, Holden Karau, Jay Smith
  - [Kubeflow Explained: Portable Machine Learning on Kubernetes](https://conferences.oreilly.com/strata/strata-ny/public/schedule/detail/69041): Michelle Casbon
* [O'Reilly AI Conference, San Francisco](https://conferences.oreilly.com/artificial-intelligence/ai-ca), 4-7 September, 2018
  - [TensorFlow Days: Kubeflow: Portable Machine Learning on Kubernetes](https://conferences.oreilly.com/artificial-intelligence/ai-ca/public/schedule/topic/2899): Michelle Casbon
* [Open Source Summit, Vancouver](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/open-source-summit-north-america-2018/), 29-31 August, 2018
  - [Elastic AI Pipeline with Kubeflow for Intelligent SKU Management in a Large Chinese Retailer](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/open-source-summit-north-america-2018/program/schedule/): Xin Zhang
  - [Introducing Kubeflow: A System for Deploying ML/AI on
    Kubernetes](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/open-source-summit-north-america-2018/program/schedule/): Trevor Grant, Holden Karau
* [JupyterCon, New York](https://conferences.oreilly.com/jupyter/jup-ny), 21-25 August, 2018
  - [Machine Learning at Scale with Kubernetes](https://conferences.oreilly.com/jupyter/jup-ny/public/schedule/detail/69752): Chris Cho
* [Google Next, San Francisco](https://cloud.withgoogle.com/next18/sf/), 24-26 July, 2018
  - AI Platform Showcase demo: Dan Sanche
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=el7cw-nVcBE)
  - [Machine Learning Made Easy: How to Build Flexible, Portable ML Stacks with Kubeflow and Elastifile](https://cloud.withgoogle.com/next18/sf/sessions/session/193227): David Aronchick, Allon Cohen
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NAqD6siHcpE)
  - [Spotlight Lab: Introduction to Kubeflow on Google Kubernetes Engine](https://cloud.withgoogle.com/next18/sf/sessions/session/229041): Michelle Casbon
      - [Codelab](https://codelabs.developers.google.com/codelabs/kubeflow-introduction/index.html)
  - [Spotlight Lab: Kubeflow End-to-End: GitHub Issue Summarization](https://cloud.withgoogle.com/next18/sf/sessions/session/229637): Michelle Casbon
      - [Codelab](https://codelabs.developers.google.com/codelabs/cloud-kubeflow-e2e-gis/index.html)
* [O'Reilly Open Source Convention, Portland](https://conferences.oreilly.com/oscon/oscon-or-2018), 16-19 July, 2018
  - [TensorFlow Day: Hassle-free, scalable machine learning with Kubeflow](https://conferences.oreilly.com/oscon/oscon-or/public/schedule/detail/70899): Barbara Fusinska
* [SciPy, Austin](https://scipy2018.scipy.org/ehome/index26ac.html?eventid=299527&tabid=712461&cid=2233540&sessionid=21618893&sessionchoice=1&%26), 09-15 July, 2018
  - Kubeflow: Pythonic Machine Learning at Scale on Kubernetes: David Aronchick, Paige Bailey
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b_CvqzmB51M)
* [Container Day, Paris](https://paris-container-day.fr/en/), 26 June, 2018
  - [Keynote: Cloud Native ML with Kubeflow](http://paris-container-day.fr/en/#tabidff38a849e758226764f1da33f5bd81e3): David Aronchick, Chris Cho
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rcC11EZdo8Y)
* [Dockercon, San Francisco](https://2018.dockercon.com/), 12 - 15 June, 2018
  - [Keynote: Moby's Cool Hacks](https://dockercon18.smarteventscloud.com/connect/sessionDetail.ww?SESSION_ID=224348): David Aronchick, Michelle Casbon
      - [Video](https://youtu.be/RnWXOAplvjY?t=1128)
* [QCon, São Paulo](https://qconsp.com/sp2018/schedule/tabular.html), 9-11 May, 2018
  - [Architecture of an NLP Deployment](https://qconsp.com/sp2018/sp2018/presentation/architecture-nlp-deployment.html): Michelle Casbon
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SbecYkirt8w&t=1975)
* [KubeCon, Copenhagen](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/kubecon-cloudnativecon-europe-2018/), 2-4 May, 2018
  - Interview: Building applications on Kubeflow: Jeremy Lewi
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VTGH9ocdVM0)
  - [Keynote: Cloud Native ML on Kubernetes](https://kccnceu18.sched.com/event/Duoq/keynote-cloud-native-ml-on-kubernetes-david-aronchick-product-manager-cloud-ai-and-co-founder-of-kubeflow-google-vishnu-kannan-sr-software-engineer-google-slides-attached): David Aronchick, Vishnu Kannan
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I6iMznIYwM8)
      - [Slides](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1_QxDZXX-sSP8llFZQ6T2zseZOcPFuVLk/view?usp=sharing)
  - [Kubeflow Deep Dive](https://kccnceu18.sched.com/event/Drnd/kubeflow-deep-dive-david-aronchick-jeremy-lewi-google-intermediate-skill-level): David Aronchick, Jeremy Lewi
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86GD1VzSnks)
      - [Slides](https://www.google.com/url?q=https%3A%2F%2Fschd.ws%2Fhosted_files%2Fkccnceu18%2Fd4%2FKubeflow_Deep_Dive.pdf&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNFK_-mkyWfKAFM9wnywPVYH9thoYw)
  - [Kubeflow Intro](https://kccnceu18.sched.com/event/Drmt/kubeflow-intro-michal-jastrzebski-ala-raddaoui-intel-any-skill-level-slides-attached): Michał Jastrzębski, Ala Raddaoui
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NrDpQks0e98)
      - [Slides](https://schd.ws/hosted_files/kccnceu18/9f/kubeflow-intro.pdf)
  - [Serving ML Models at Scale with Seldon & Kubeflow](https://kccnceu18.sched.com/event/Dqvw/serving-ml-models-at-scale-with-seldon-and-kubeflow-clive-cox-seldonio-intermediate-skill-level-slides-attached): Clive Cox
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pDlapGtecbY)
      - [Slides](https://schd.ws/hosted_files/kccnceu18/1a/SeldonKubeconEurope2018.pdf)
  - [Conquering a Kubeflow Kubernetes Cluster with ksonnet, Ark, & Sonobuoy](https://kccnceu18.sched.com/event/Dqv6/conquering-a-kubeflow-kubernetes-cluster-with-ksonnet-ark-and-sonobuoy-kris-nova-heptio-david-aronchick-google-intermediate-skill-level): David Aronchick, Kris Nova
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=givpqZ2IchI)
  - [Building ML Products with Kubeflow](https://kccnceu18.sched.com/event/Dquu/building-ml-products-with-kubeflow-jeremy-lewi-google-stephan-fabel-canonical-intermediate-skill-level-slides-attached): Jeremy Lewi, Stephan Fabel
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sC8Ce9vUggo)
      - [Slides](https://schd.ws/hosted_files/kccnceu18/c2/Building%20ML%20Products%20With%20Kubeflow%20%28Kubecon%202018%29%20%281%29.pdf)
  - [Compliant Data Management & Machine Learning on Kubernetes](https://kccnceu18.sched.com/event/DqvC/compliant-data-management-and-machine-learning-on-kubernetes-daniel-whitenack-pachyderm-intermediate-skill-level-slides-attached): Daniel Whitenack
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eOzl-LFqYFM)
      - [Slides](https://schd.ws/hosted_files/kccnceu18/a1/KubeCon_EU_2018%20%281%29.pdf)
  - [Bringing Your Data Pipeline into the Machine Learning Era](https://kccnceu18.sched.com/event/E46y/bringing-your-data-pipeline-into-the-machine-learning-era-chris-gaun-jorg-schad-mesosphere-intermediate-skill-level): Chris Gaun, Jörg Schad
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_-3rQoudnc)
* [KubeCon, Austin](http://events17.linuxfoundation.org/events/kubecon-and-cloudnativecon-north-america), 6-8 December, 2017
  - ["Hot Dog or Not Hot Dog" at Scale - Kubernetes & Machine Learning](https://kccncna17.sched.com/event/CU5v/hot-dogs-or-not-at-scale-with-kubernetes-i-vish-kannan-david-aronchick-google): David Aronchick, Vishnu Kannan
      - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R3dVF5wWz-g&feature=youtu.be)
