content/docs/started/getting-started-minikube.md, before:

+++
title = "Minikube for Kubeflow"
description = "Quickly get Kubeflow running locally"
weight = 10
toc = true
bref = "This document will outline steps that will get your local installation of Kubeflow running on top of Mikikube. Minikube runs a simple, single-node Kubernetes cluster inside a virtual machine (VM)."
+++

By the end of this document, you'll have a local installation of Minikube kubernetes clsuter along with all the default core components of
Kubeflow deployed as services in the pods. You should be able to access JupyterHub notebooks, and the Kubeflow Dashboard.

### Install a Hypervisor
If you do not already have a hypervisor installed, install a new one.

##### Mac OS X
Install [Virtual Box](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads) or [VMware Fusion](https://www.vmware.com/products/fusion).

##### Ubuntu
Install [Virtual Box](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads) or [KVM](http://www.linux-kvm.org/).

For installing KVM:

```
$ sudo apt-get install libvirt-bin kvm virt-manager virt-viewer python-spice-client-gtk qemu-kvm qemu-system
$ sudo usermod -aG libvirtd $USER
```

##### CentOS
Install [Virtual Box](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads) or [KVM](http://www.linux-kvm.org/).

For installing KVM:

```
$ sudo yum install qemu-kvm qemu-img virt-manager libvirt libvirt-python libvirt-client virt-install virt-viewer bridge-utils
$ sudo systemctl start libvirtd
$ sudo systemctl enable libvirtd
```

### Install Kubectl

##### Mac OS X

```
$ brew install kubectl
```

##### Ubuntu

```
$ sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y apt-transport-https
$ curl -s https://packages.cloud.google.com/apt/doc/apt-key.gpg | sudo apt-key add -
$ sudo touch /etc/apt/sources.list.d/kubernetes.list 
$ echo "deb http://apt.kubernetes.io/ kubernetes-xenial main" | sudo tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list.d/kubernetes.list
$ sudo apt-get update
$ sudo apt-get install -y kubectl
```

##### CentOS

```
$ cat <<EOF > /etc/yum.repos.d/kubernetes.repo
[kubernetes]
name=Kubernetes
baseurl=https://packages.cloud.google.com/yum/repos/kubernetes-el7-x86_64
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
repo_gpgcheck=1
gpgkey=https://packages.cloud.google.com/yum/doc/yum-key.gpg https://packages.cloud.google.com/yum/doc/rpm-package-key.gpg
EOF

$ sudo yum install -y kubectl
```

### Install & Start Minikube
Please see [detailed instructions](https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube/releases) for Minikube installation. 
For quick setup instructions follow along below.

##### Mac OS X

```
$ curl -Lo minikube https://storage.googleapis.com/minikube/releases/v0.28.0/minikube-darwin-amd64
$ chmod +x minikube
$ sudo mv minikube /usr/local/bin/
```

##### Ubuntu or CentOS

```
$ curl -Lo minikube https://storage.googleapis.com/minikube/releases/v0.28.0/minikube-linux-amd64
$ chmod +x minikube
$ sudo mv minikube /usr/local/bin/
```

##### Start your minikube cluster

```
$ minikube start --cpus 4 --memory 8096 --disk-size=40g 
```

Notes:

1. These are the minimum recommended settings on the VM created by minikube for kubeflow deployment. You are free to adjust them **higher** based on your host machine 
capabilities and workload requirements.
1. Using certain hypervisors might require you to set --vm-driver option [specifying the driver](https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube/blob/master/docs/drivers.md)
you want to use.

In case, you have the default minikube VM already created (following detailed installation instructions), please use the following to update the VM.

```
$ minikube stop
$ minikube delete
$ minikube start --cpus 4 --memory 8096 --disk-size=40g
```

### Installing Kubeflow using Bootstrapper
The following steps will deploy Kubeflow components and start them on the Minikube you created above.

Download bootstrapper configuration file.
```
$ curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/master/bootstrap/bootstrapper.yaml
```

Apply the config.

```
$ kubectl create -f bootstrapper.yaml
```
This should output
```
namespace "kubeflow-admin" created
clusterrolebinding.rbac.authorization.k8s.io "kubeflow-cluster-admin" created
persistentvolumeclaim "kubeflow-ksonnet-pvc" created
statefulset.apps "kubeflow-bootstrapper" created
```

Verify the setup worked.
```
$ kubectl get ns
NAME             STATUS    AGE
default          Active    1m
kube-public      Active    1m
kube-system      Active    1m
kubeflow-admin   Active    53s

$ kubectl -n kubeflow get svc
NAME               TYPE        CLUSTER-IP       EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)    AGE
ambassador         ClusterIP   10.97.168.31     <none>        80/TCP     1m
ambassador-admin   ClusterIP   10.99.5.81       <none>        8877/TCP   1m
centraldashboard   ClusterIP   10.111.104.142   <none>        80/TCP     1m
k8s-dashboard      ClusterIP   10.102.65.244    <none>        443/TCP    1m
tf-hub-0           ClusterIP   None             <none>        8000/TCP   1m
tf-hub-lb          ClusterIP   10.101.15.28     <none>        80/TCP     1m
tf-job-dashboard   ClusterIP   10.106.133.49    <none>        80/TCP     1m
```

Setup port forwarding for the central dashboard UI and Jupyter Hub
```
$ POD=`kubectl -n kubeflow get pods --selector=service=ambassador | awk '{print $1}' | tail -1`
$ kubectl -n kubeflow port-forward $POD 8080:80 2>&1 >/dev/null &
$ POD=`kubectl -n kubeflow get pods --selector=app=tf-hub | awk '{print $1}' | tail -1`
$ kubectl -n kubeflow port-forward $POD 8000:8000 2>&1 >/dev/null &
```
Now you can access the Kubeflow dashboard at http://localhost:8080/ and JupyterHub at http://localhost:8000/.
For JupyterHub, you'll be landing on a login page. 

  - Use any username and password to login
  - Pick an available CPU tensorflow image
  - Provide at least 2 CPUs
  - Provide 4Gi for the memory
  - Leave "Extra Resource Limits" alone for now
  - Click Spawn.
  - You should be redirected to a page that waits while the server is starting.

If the page doesn't refresh, please see [troubleshooting](https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/blob/master/user_guide.md#problems-spawning-jupyter-pods).

Commit message:

Website Structure Changes (#69)
* Website Structure Changes

* Put all docs/ content in  under a subdirectory to make it easy to organize
* Add a [[menu.docs]] in config.toml which organizes docs into sections
* For each docs content frontmatter, add a weight and a parent menu
* Major improvements to SecNav
  * Organize it into sections and pages
  * Highlight the current page in SecNav
* Missing .Params.bref should not crash hugo

* Add aliases so that it doesn't break previous links

* Updates to font size to make page more readable

content/docs/started/getting-started-minikube.md, after:

+++
title = "Minikube for Kubeflow"
description = "Quickly get Kubeflow running locally"
weight = 10
toc = true
bref = "This document will outline steps that will get your local installation of Kubeflow running on top of Mikikube. Minikube runs a simple, single-node Kubernetes cluster inside a virtual machine (VM)."
[menu.docs]
  parent = "started"
  weight = 2
+++

By the end of this document, you'll have a local installation of Minikube kubernetes clsuter along with all the default core components of
Kubeflow deployed as services in the pods. You should be able to access JupyterHub notebooks, and the Kubeflow Dashboard.

### Install a Hypervisor
If you do not already have a hypervisor installed, install a new one.

##### Mac OS X
Install [Virtual Box](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads) or [VMware Fusion](https://www.vmware.com/products/fusion).

##### Ubuntu
Install [Virtual Box](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads) or [KVM](http://www.linux-kvm.org/).

For installing KVM:

```
$ sudo apt-get install libvirt-bin kvm virt-manager virt-viewer python-spice-client-gtk qemu-kvm qemu-system
$ sudo usermod -aG libvirtd $USER
```

##### CentOS
Install [Virtual Box](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads) or [KVM](http://www.linux-kvm.org/).

For installing KVM:

```
$ sudo yum install qemu-kvm qemu-img virt-manager libvirt libvirt-python libvirt-client virt-install virt-viewer bridge-utils
$ sudo systemctl start libvirtd
$ sudo systemctl enable libvirtd
```

### Install Kubectl

##### Mac OS X

```
$ brew install kubectl
```

##### Ubuntu

```
$ sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y apt-transport-https
$ curl -s https://packages.cloud.google.com/apt/doc/apt-key.gpg | sudo apt-key add -
$ sudo touch /etc/apt/sources.list.d/kubernetes.list
$ echo "deb http://apt.kubernetes.io/ kubernetes-xenial main" | sudo tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list.d/kubernetes.list
$ sudo apt-get update
$ sudo apt-get install -y kubectl
```

##### CentOS

```
$ cat <<EOF > /etc/yum.repos.d/kubernetes.repo
[kubernetes]
name=Kubernetes
baseurl=https://packages.cloud.google.com/yum/repos/kubernetes-el7-x86_64
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
repo_gpgcheck=1
gpgkey=https://packages.cloud.google.com/yum/doc/yum-key.gpg https://packages.cloud.google.com/yum/doc/rpm-package-key.gpg
EOF

$ sudo yum install -y kubectl
```

### Install & Start Minikube
Please see [detailed instructions](https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube/releases) for Minikube installation.
For quick setup instructions follow along below.

##### Mac OS X

```
$ curl -Lo minikube https://storage.googleapis.com/minikube/releases/v0.28.0/minikube-darwin-amd64
$ chmod +x minikube
$ sudo mv minikube /usr/local/bin/
```

##### Ubuntu or CentOS

```
$ curl -Lo minikube https://storage.googleapis.com/minikube/releases/v0.28.0/minikube-linux-amd64
$ chmod +x minikube
$ sudo mv minikube /usr/local/bin/
```

##### Start your minikube cluster

```
$ minikube start --cpus 4 --memory 8096 --disk-size=40g
```

Notes:

1. These are the minimum recommended settings on the VM created by minikube for kubeflow deployment. You are free to adjust them **higher** based on your host machine
capabilities and workload requirements.
1. Using certain hypervisors might require you to set --vm-driver option [specifying the driver](https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube/blob/master/docs/drivers.md)
you want to use.

In case, you have the default minikube VM already created (following detailed installation instructions), please use the following to update the VM.

```
$ minikube stop
$ minikube delete
$ minikube start --cpus 4 --memory 8096 --disk-size=40g
```

### Installing Kubeflow using Bootstrapper
The following steps will deploy Kubeflow components and start them on the Minikube you created above.

Download bootstrapper configuration file.
```
$ curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/master/bootstrap/bootstrapper.yaml
```

Apply the config.

```
$ kubectl create -f bootstrapper.yaml
```
This should output
```
namespace "kubeflow-admin" created
clusterrolebinding.rbac.authorization.k8s.io "kubeflow-cluster-admin" created
persistentvolumeclaim "kubeflow-ksonnet-pvc" created
statefulset.apps "kubeflow-bootstrapper" created
```

Verify the setup worked.
```
$ kubectl get ns
NAME             STATUS    AGE
default          Active    1m
kube-public      Active    1m
kube-system      Active    1m
kubeflow-admin   Active    53s

$ kubectl -n kubeflow get svc
NAME               TYPE        CLUSTER-IP       EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)    AGE
ambassador         ClusterIP   10.97.168.31     <none>        80/TCP     1m
ambassador-admin   ClusterIP   10.99.5.81       <none>        8877/TCP   1m
centraldashboard   ClusterIP   10.111.104.142   <none>        80/TCP     1m
k8s-dashboard      ClusterIP   10.102.65.244    <none>        443/TCP    1m
tf-hub-0           ClusterIP   None             <none>        8000/TCP   1m
tf-hub-lb          ClusterIP   10.101.15.28     <none>        80/TCP     1m
tf-job-dashboard   ClusterIP   10.106.133.49    <none>        80/TCP     1m
```

Setup port forwarding for the central dashboard UI and Jupyter Hub
```
$ POD=`kubectl -n kubeflow get pods --selector=service=ambassador | awk '{print $1}' | tail -1`
$ kubectl -n kubeflow port-forward $POD 8080:80 2>&1 >/dev/null &
$ POD=`kubectl -n kubeflow get pods --selector=app=tf-hub | awk '{print $1}' | tail -1`
$ kubectl -n kubeflow port-forward $POD 8000:8000 2>&1 >/dev/null &
```
Now you can access the Kubeflow dashboard at http://localhost:8080/ and JupyterHub at http://localhost:8000/.
For JupyterHub, you'll be landing on a login page.

  - Use any username and password to login
  - Pick an available CPU tensorflow image
  - Provide at least 2 CPUs
  - Provide 4Gi for the memory
  - Leave "Extra Resource Limits" alone for now
  - Click Spawn.
  - You should be redirected to a page that waits while the server is starting.

If the page doesn't refresh, please see [troubleshooting](https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/blob/master/user_guide.md#problems-spawning-jupyter-pods).
