content/docs/components/istio.md, before:

+++
title = "Istio Integration (for TF Serving)"
description = "Using Istio for TF Serving"
weight = 6
+++

[Istio](https://istio.io/) provides a lot of functionality that we want to have, such as metrics, auth and
quota, rollout and A/B testing.

## Install Istio
We assume Kubeflow is already deployed in the `kubeflow` namespace.

```
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/master/dependencies/istio/install/crds.yaml
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/master/dependencies/istio/install/istio-noauth.yaml
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/master/dependencies/istio/kf-istio-resources.yaml

kubectl label namespace kubeflow istio-injection=enabled
```

The first command installs Istio's CRDs.

The second command installs Istio's core components (without mTLS), with some customization:
1. sidecar injection configmap policy is changed from `enabled` to `disabled`

2. istio-ingressgateway is of type `NodePort` instead of `LoadBalancer`

The third command deploys some resources for Kubeflow.

The fourth command label the kubeflow namespace for sidecar injector.

See this [table](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/6476#issuecomment-399219937) for sidecar injection
behavior. We want to have configmap disabled, and namespace enabled, so that injection happens if and only if
the pod has annotation.

## Kubeflow TF Serving with Istio

After installing Istio, we can deploy the TF Serving component as in 
[TensorFlow Serving](/docs/components/tfserving_new/) with
additional params:

```
ks param set ${MODEL_COMPONENT} injectIstio true
```

This will inject an istio sidecar in the TF serving deployment.

#### Routing with Istio vs Ambassador
With the ambassador annotation, a TF serving deployment can be accessed at `HOST/tfserving/models/MODEL_NAME`.
However, in order to use Istio's Gateway to do traffic split, we should use the path provided by
Istio routing: `HOST/istio/tfserving/models/MODEL_NAME`

### Metrics
The istio sidecar reports data to [Mixer](https://istio.io/docs/concepts/policy-and-control/mixer.html).
Execute the command:

```
kubectl -n istio-system port-forward $(kubectl -n istio-system get pod -l app=grafana -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') 3000:3000
```

Visit http://localhost:3000/dashboard/db/istio-mesh-dashboard in your web browser.
Send some requests to the TF serving service, then there should be some data (QPS, success rate, latency)
like this:
<img src="../istio-dashboard.png" 
  alt="Istio dashboard"
  class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">


#### Define and view metrics
See istio [doc](https://istio.io/docs/tasks/telemetry/metrics-logs.html).

#### Expose Grafana dashboard behind ingress/IAP

Grafana needs to be [configured](http://docs.grafana.org/installation/behind_proxy/#examples-with-sub-path-ex-http-foo-bar-com-grafana)
to work properly behind a reverse proxy. We can override the default config using
[environment variable](http://docs.grafana.org/installation/configuration/#using-environment-variables).
So do `kubectl edit deploy -n istio-system grafana`, and add env vars

  ```
  - name: GF_SERVER_DOMAIN
    value: YOUR_HOST
  - name: GF_SERVER_ROOT_URL
    value: '%(protocol)s://%(domain)s:/grafana'
  ```

### Rolling out new model

A typical scenario is that we first deploy a model A. Then we develop another model B, and we want to deploy it
and gradually move traffic from A to B. This can be achieved using Istio's traffic routing.

1. Deploy the first model as described for 
  [TensorFlow Serving](/docs/components/tfserving_new/). 
  Then you will have the service (Model) and the deployment (Version).

2. Deploy another version of the model, v2. This time, no need to deploy the service part.

    ```
    MODEL_COMPONENT2=mnist-v2
    ks generate tf-serving-deployment-gcp ${MODEL_COMPONENT2}
    ks param set ${MODEL_COMPONENT2} modelName mnist  // modelName should be the SAME as  the previous one
    ks param set ${MODEL_COMPONENT2} versionName v2   // v2 !!
    ks param set ${MODEL_COMPONENT2} modelBasePath gs://kubeflow-examples-data/mnist
    ks param set ${MODEL_COMPONENT2} gcpCredentialSecretName user-gcp-sa
    ks param set ${MODEL_COMPONENT2} injectIstio true   // This is required
    
    ks apply ${KF_ENV} -c ${MODEL_COMPONENT2}
    ```

3. Update the traffic weight
   
   ```
   ks param set mnist-service trafficRule v1:90:v2:10   // This routes 90% to v1, and 10% to v2
   ks apply ${KF_ENV} -c mnist-service
   ```

Commit message:

Clarified meaning of environment in KF_ENV. (#625)

content/docs/components/istio.md, after:

+++
title = "Istio Integration (for TF Serving)"
description = "Using Istio for TF Serving"
weight = 6
+++

[Istio](https://istio.io/) provides a lot of functionality that we want to have, such as metrics, auth and
quota, rollout and A/B testing.

## Install Istio
We assume Kubeflow is already deployed in the `kubeflow` namespace.

```
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/master/dependencies/istio/install/crds.yaml
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/master/dependencies/istio/install/istio-noauth.yaml
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/master/dependencies/istio/kf-istio-resources.yaml

kubectl label namespace kubeflow istio-injection=enabled
```

The first command installs Istio's CRDs.

The second command installs Istio's core components (without mTLS), with some customization:
1. sidecar injection configmap policy is changed from `enabled` to `disabled`

2. istio-ingressgateway is of type `NodePort` instead of `LoadBalancer`

The third command deploys some resources for Kubeflow.

The fourth command label the kubeflow namespace for sidecar injector.

See this [table](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/6476#issuecomment-399219937) for sidecar injection
behavior. We want to have configmap disabled, and namespace enabled, so that injection happens if and only if
the pod has annotation.

## Kubeflow TF Serving with Istio

After installing Istio, we can deploy the TF Serving component as in 
[TensorFlow Serving](/docs/components/tfserving_new/) with
additional params:

```
ks param set ${MODEL_COMPONENT} injectIstio true
```

This will inject an istio sidecar in the TF serving deployment.

#### Routing with Istio vs Ambassador
With the ambassador annotation, a TF serving deployment can be accessed at `HOST/tfserving/models/MODEL_NAME`.
However, in order to use Istio's Gateway to do traffic split, we should use the path provided by
Istio routing: `HOST/istio/tfserving/models/MODEL_NAME`

### Metrics
The istio sidecar reports data to [Mixer](https://istio.io/docs/concepts/policy-and-control/mixer.html).
Execute the command:

```
kubectl -n istio-system port-forward $(kubectl -n istio-system get pod -l app=grafana -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}') 3000:3000
```

Visit http://localhost:3000/dashboard/db/istio-mesh-dashboard in your web browser.
Send some requests to the TF serving service, then there should be some data (QPS, success rate, latency)
like this:
<img src="../istio-dashboard.png" 
  alt="Istio dashboard"
  class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">


#### Define and view metrics
See istio [doc](https://istio.io/docs/tasks/telemetry/metrics-logs.html).

#### Expose Grafana dashboard behind ingress/IAP

Grafana needs to be [configured](http://docs.grafana.org/installation/behind_proxy/#examples-with-sub-path-ex-http-foo-bar-com-grafana)
to work properly behind a reverse proxy. We can override the default config using
[environment variable](http://docs.grafana.org/installation/configuration/#using-environment-variables).
So do `kubectl edit deploy -n istio-system grafana`, and add env vars

  ```
  - name: GF_SERVER_DOMAIN
    value: YOUR_HOST
  - name: GF_SERVER_ROOT_URL
    value: '%(protocol)s://%(domain)s:/grafana'
  ```

### Rolling out new model

A typical scenario is that we first deploy a model A. Then we develop another model B, and we want to deploy it
and gradually move traffic from A to B. This can be achieved using Istio's traffic routing.

1. Deploy the first model as described for 
  [TensorFlow Serving](/docs/components/tfserving_new/). 
  Then you will have the service (Model) and the deployment (Version).

2. Deploy another version of the model, v2. This time, no need to deploy the service part.

    ```
    MODEL_COMPONENT2=mnist-v2
    KF_ENV=default
    ks generate tf-serving-deployment-gcp ${MODEL_COMPONENT2}
    ks param set ${MODEL_COMPONENT2} modelName mnist  // modelName should be the SAME as  the previous one
    ks param set ${MODEL_COMPONENT2} versionName v2   // v2 !!
    ks param set ${MODEL_COMPONENT2} modelBasePath gs://kubeflow-examples-data/mnist
    ks param set ${MODEL_COMPONENT2} gcpCredentialSecretName user-gcp-sa
    ks param set ${MODEL_COMPONENT2} injectIstio true   // This is required
    
    ks apply ${KF_ENV} -c ${MODEL_COMPONENT2}
    ```

    The `KF_ENV` environment variable represents a conceptual deployment environment 
    such as development, test, staging, or production, as defined by 
    ksonnet. For this example, we use the `default` environment.
    You can read more about Kubeflow's use of ksonnet in the Kubeflow 
    [ksonnet component guide](/docs/components/ksonnet/).

3. Update the traffic weight
   
   ```
   ks param set mnist-service trafficRule v1:90:v2:10   // This routes 90% to v1, and 10% to v2
   ks apply ${KF_ENV} -c mnist-service
   ```
