content/docs/gke/troubleshooting-gke.md, before:

+++
title = "Troubleshooting Deployments on GKE"
description = "Help fixing problems on GKE and GCP"
weight = 6
+++

This guide helps diagnose and fix issues you may encounter with Kubeflow on 
Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) and Google Cloud Platform (GCP).

## Before you start

This guide covers troubleshooting specifically for 
[Kubeflow deployments on GCP](/docs/gke/deploy/).

For more help, try the 
[general Kubeflow troubleshooting guide](/docs/other-guides/troubleshooting).

## Troubleshooting Cloud IAP

Here are some tips for troubleshooting Cloud IAP.

 * Make sure you are using HTTPS

### DNS name not registered

This section provides troubleshooting information for problems creating a DNS entry for your [ingress](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/). The ingress is a K8s resource
that creates a GCP loadbalancer to enable http(s) access to Kubeflow web services from outside
the cluster. This section assumes
you are using [Cloud Endpoints](https://cloud.google.com/endpoints/) and a DNS name of the following pattern

```
https://${DEPLOYMENT_NAME}.endpoints.${PROJECT}.cloud.goog
```

Symptoms:

  * When you access the the URL in Chrome you get the error: **server IP address could not be found**
  * nslookup for the domain name doesn't return the IP address associated with the ingress

    ```
    nslookup ${DEPLOYMENT_NAME}.endpoints.${PROJECT}.cloud.goog
    Server:   127.0.0.1
    Address:  127.0.0.1#53

    ** server can't find ${DEPLOYMENT_NAME}.endpoints.${PROJECT}.cloud.goog: NXDOMAIN
    ```

Troubleshooting

1. Check the `cloudendpoints` resource

   ```
   kubectl get cloudendpoints -o yaml ${DEPLOYMENT_NAME}
   kubectl describe cloudendpoints ${DEPLOYMENT_NAME}
   ```

   * Check if there are errors indicating problems creating the endpoint

1. The status of the `cloudendpoints` object will contain the cloud operation used to register the operation

   * For example

     ```
      status:
        config: ""
        configMapHash: ""
        configSubmit: operations/serviceConfigs.jlewi-1218-001.endpoints.cloud-ml-dev.cloud.goog:43fe6c6f-eb9c-41d0-ac85-b547fc3e6e38
        endpoint: jlewi-1218-001.endpoints.cloud-ml-dev.cloud.goog
        ingressIP: 35.227.243.83
        jwtAudiences: null
        lastAppliedSig: 4f3b903a06a683b380bf1aac1deca72792472429
        observedGeneration: 1
        stateCurrent: ENDPOINT_SUBMIT_PENDING

     ```

  * You can check the status of the operation by running:

    ```
    gcloud --project=${PROJECT} endpoints operations describe ${OPERATION}
    ```

    * Operation is everything after `operations/` in the `configSubmit` field

### 404 Page Not Found When Accessing Central Dashboard

This section provides troubleshooting information for 404s, page not found, being return by the central dashboard which is served at

   ```
   https://${KUBEFLOW_FQDN}/
   ```

   * ***KUBEFLOW_FQDN*** is your project's OAuth web app URI domain name `<name>.endpoints.<project>.cloud.goog`
   * Since we were able to sign in this indicates the Ambassador reverse proxy is up and healthy we can confirm this is the case by running the following command

   ```
   kubectl -n ${NAMESPACE} get pods -l service=envoy

   NAME                     READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
   envoy-76774f8d5c-lx9bd   2/2       Running   2          4m
   envoy-76774f8d5c-ngjnr   2/2       Running   2          4m
   envoy-76774f8d5c-sg555   2/2       Running   2          4m
   ```

* Try other services to see if they're accessible for example

   ```
   https://${KUBEFLOW_FQDN}/whoami
   https://${KUBEFLOW_FQDN}/tfjobs/ui
   https://${KUBEFLOW_FQDN}/hub
   ```

 * If other services are accessible then we know its a problem specific to the central dashboard and not ingress
 * Check that the centraldashboard is running

    ```
    kubectl get pods -l app=centraldashboard
    NAME                                READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    centraldashboard-6665fc46cb-592br   1/1       Running   0          7h
    ```

 * Check a service for the central dashboard exists

    ```
    kubectl get service -o yaml centraldashboard
    ```

 * Check that an Ambassador route is properly defined

    ```
    kubectl get service centraldashboard -o jsonpath='{.metadata.annotations.getambassador\.io/config}'

    apiVersion: ambassador/v0
      kind:  Mapping
      name: centralui-mapping
      prefix: /
      rewrite: /
      service: centraldashboard.kubeflow,
    ```

 * Check the logs of Ambassador for errors. See if there are errors like the following indicating
   an error parsing the route.If you are using the new Stackdriver Kubernetes monitoring you can use the following filter in the [stackdriver console](https://console.cloud.google.com/logs/viewer)

    ```
     resource.type="k8s_container"
     resource.labels.location=${ZONE}
     resource.labels.cluster_name=${CLUSTER}
     metadata.userLabels.service="ambassador"
    "could not parse YAML"
    ```

### 502 Server Error
A 502 usually means traffic isn't even making it to the envoy reverse proxy. And it
usually indicates the loadbalancer doesn't think any backends are healthy.

* In Cloud Console select Network Services -> Load Balancing
    * Click on the load balancer (the name should contain the name of the ingress)
    * The exact name can be found by looking at the `ingress.kubernetes.io/url-map` annotation on your ingress object
       ```
       URLMAP=$(kubectl --namespace=${NAMESPACE} get ingress envoy-ingress -o jsonpath='{.metadata.annotations.ingress\.kubernetes\.io/url-map}')
       echo ${URLMAP}
       ```
    * Click on your loadbalancer
    * This will show you the backend services associated with the load balancer
        * There is 1 backend service for each K8s service the ingress rule routes traffic too
        * The named port will correspond to the NodePort a service is using

          ```
          NODE_PORT=$(kubectl --namespace=${NAMESPACE} get svc envoy -o jsonpath='{.spec.ports[0].nodePort}')
          BACKEND_NAME=$(gcloud compute --project=${PROJECT} backend-services list --filter=name~k8s-be-${NODE_PORT}- --format='value(name)')
          gcloud compute --project=${PROJECT} backend-services get-health --global ${BACKEND_NAME}
          ```
    * Make sure the load balancer reports the backends as healthy
        * If the backends aren't reported as healthy check that the pods associated with the K8s service are up and running
        * Check that health checks are properly configured
          * Click on the health check associated with the backend service for envoy
          * Check that the path is /healthz and corresponds to the path of the readiness probe on the envoy pods
          * See [K8s docs](https://github.com/kubernetes/contrib/blob/{{< params "githubbranch" >}}/ingress/controllers/gce/examples/health_checks/README.md#limitations) for important information about how health checks are determined from readiness probes.

        * Check firewall rules to ensure traffic isn't blocked from the GCP loadbalancer
            * The firewall rule should be added automatically by the ingress but its possible it got deleted if you have some automatic firewall policy enforcement. You can recreate the firewall rule if needed with a rule like this

               ```
               gcloud compute firewall-rules create $NAME \
              --project $PROJECT \
              --allow tcp:$PORT \
              --target-tags $NODE_TAG \
              --source-ranges 130.211.0.0/22,35.191.0.0/16
               ```

           * To get the node tag

              ```
              # From the Kubernetes Engine cluster get the name of the managed instance group
              gcloud --project=$PROJECT container clusters --zone=$ZONE describe $CLUSTER
              # Get the template associated with the MIG
              gcloud --project=kubeflow-rl compute instance-groups managed describe --zone=${ZONE} ${MIG_NAME}
              # Get the instance tags from the template
              gcloud --project=kubeflow-rl compute instance-templates describe ${TEMPLATE_NAME}

              ```

              For more info [see GCP HTTP health check docs](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/load-balancing/health-checks)

  * In Stackdriver Logging look at the Cloud Http Load Balancer logs

    * Logs are labeled with the forwarding rule
    * The forwarding rules are available via the annotations on the ingress
      ```
      ingress.kubernetes.io/forwarding-rule
      ingress.kubernetes.io/https-forwarding-rule
      ```

  * Verify that requests are being properly routed within the cluster
  * Connect to one of the envoy proxies

        ```
        kubectl exec -ti `kubectl get pods --selector=service=envoy -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}'` /bin/bash
        ```

  * Install curl in the pod
  ```
  apt-get update && apt-get install -y curl
  ```

  * Verify access to the whoami app
  ```
  curl -L -s -i http://envoy:8080/noiap/whoami
  ```
  * If this doesn't return a 200 OK response; then there is a problem with the K8s resources
      * Check the pods are running
      * Check services are pointing at the points (look at the endpoints for the various services)

## Envoy pods crash-looping: root cause is backend quota exceeded

If your logs show the 
[Envoy](https://istio.io/docs/concepts/what-is-istio/#envoy) pods crash-looping, 
the root cause may be that you have exceeded your quota for some 
backend services such as loadbalancers. 
This is particularly likely if you have multiple, differently named deployments 
in the same GCP project using [Cloud IAP](https://cloud.google.com/iap/).

### The error

The error looks like this for the pod's Envoy container:

```
kubectl logs -n kubeflow envoy-79ff8d86b-z2snp envoy
[2019-01-22 00:19:44.400][1][info][main] external/envoy/source/server/server.cc:184] initializing epoch 0 (hot restart version=9.200.16384.127.options=capacity=16384, num_slots=8209 hash=228984379728933363)
[2019-01-22 00:19:44.400][1][critical][main] external/envoy/source/server/server.cc:71] error initializing configuration '/etc/envoy/envoy-config.json': unable to read file: /etc/envoy/envoy-config.json
```

And the Cloud IAP container shows a message like this:

```
Waiting for backend id PROJECT=<your-project> NAMESPACE=kubeflow SERVICE=envoy filter=name~k8s-be-30352-...
```

### Diagnosing the cause

You can verify the cause of the problem by entering the following command:

```
kubectl -n kubeflow describe ingress
```

Look for something like this in the output:

```
Events:
  Type     Reason  Age                  From                     Message
  ----     ------  ----                 ----                     -------
  Warning  Sync    14m (x193 over 19h)  loadbalancer-controller  Error during sync: googleapi: Error 403: Quota 'BACKEND_SERVICES' exceeded. Limit: 5.0 globally., quotaExceeded
```

### Fixing the problem

Note: You can ignore the error you have not enabled Cloud IAP for the cluster,
that is, if you are connecting via a port-forward.

If you have any redundant Kubeflow deployments, you can delete them using
the [Deployment Manager](https://cloud.google.com/deployment-manager/docs/).

Alternatively, you can request more backend services quota on the GCP Console.

1. Go to the [quota settings for backend services on the GCP 
  Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin/quotas?metric=Backend%20services).
1. Click **EDIT QUOTAS**. A quota editing form opens on the right of the
  screen.
1. Follow the form instructions to apply for more quota.


## Cloud Filestore: legacy networks are not supported

Cloud Filestore tries to use the network named `default` by default. For older projects,
this will be a legacy network which is incompatible with Cloud Filestore. This will
manifest as an error like the following when deploying Cloud Filestore:

```
ERROR: (gcloud.deployment-manager.deployments.update) Error in Operation [operation-1533189457517-5726d7cfd19c9-e1b0b0b5-58ca11b8]: errors:
- code: RESOURCE_ERROR
  location: /deployments/jl-0801-b-gcfs/resources/filestore
  message: '{"ResourceType":"gcp-types/file-v1beta1:projects.locations.instances","ResourceErrorCode":"400","ResourceErrorMessage":{"code":400,"message":"network
    default is invalid; legacy networks are not supported.","status":"INVALID_ARGUMENT","statusMessage":"Bad
    Request","requestPath":"https://file.googleapis.com/v1beta1/projects/cloud-ml-dev/locations/us-central1-a/instances","httpMethod":"POST"}}'

```

To fix this we can create a new network:

```
cp ${KUBEFLOW_SRC}/scripts/deployment_manager_configs/network.* \
   ${KFAPP}/gcp_config/
```

Edit `network.yaml `to set the name for the network.

Edit `gcfs.yaml` to use the name of the newly created network.

Apply the changes.

```
cd ${KFAPP}
kfctl apply platform
```

## CPU platform unavailable in requested zone

By default we set minCpuPlatform to `Intel Haswell` to make sure AVX2 is supported.
See [troubleshooting](/docs/other-guides/troubleshooting/) for more details.

If you encounter this `CPU platform unavailable` error (might manifest as
`Cluster is currently being created, deleted, updated or repaired and cannot be updated.`),
you can change the [zone](https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/blob/master/scripts/gke/deployment_manager_configs/cluster-kubeflow.yaml#L31)
or change the [minCpuPlatform](https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/blob/master/scripts/gke/deployment_manager_configs/cluster.jinja#L105).
See [here](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/regions-zones/#available)
for available zones and cpu platforms.

## Changing the OAuth client used by IAP

If you need to change the OAuth client used by IAP you can runn the following commands
to replace the K8s secret containing the id and secret.

```
kubectl -n kubeflow delete secret kubeflow-oauth
kubectl -n kubeflow create secret generic kubeflow-oauth \
       --from-literal=CLIENT_ID=${CLIENT_ID} \
       --from-literal=CLIENT_SECRET=${CLIENT_SECRET}
```

Commit message:

Update docs for enabling private clusters for 0.5.
* Provide instructions for how to replicate non-GCR images to a GCR registry
  so that they are accessible from private GKE.

  * We no longer depend on Kubeflow hosting a mirror for all images; instead
    user's will mirrror the images to their own GCR and then update
    relevant Kubeflow components

  * The relevant scripts will be submitted in a pending PR to kubeflow/kubeflow

* Update instructions for dealing with legacy networks

* The cluster isn't fully functional yet

  * Pipelines is having some issues; looks like mnio might not be deployed
    fully.

  * vizier db and vizier core are also crash looping.

  * Will file additional issues to track that.

Related to: kubeflow/kubeflow#2086 deploy private GKE cluster

content/docs/gke/troubleshooting-gke.md, after:

+++
title = "Troubleshooting Deployments on GKE"
description = "Help fixing problems on GKE and GCP"
weight = 6
+++

This guide helps diagnose and fix issues you may encounter with Kubeflow on 
Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) and Google Cloud Platform (GCP).

## Before you start

This guide covers troubleshooting specifically for 
[Kubeflow deployments on GCP](/docs/gke/deploy/).

For more help, try the 
[general Kubeflow troubleshooting guide](/docs/other-guides/troubleshooting).

## Troubleshooting Cloud IAP

Here are some tips for troubleshooting Cloud IAP.

 * Make sure you are using HTTPS

### DNS name not registered

This section provides troubleshooting information for problems creating a DNS entry for your [ingress](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/). The ingress is a K8s resource
that creates a GCP loadbalancer to enable http(s) access to Kubeflow web services from outside
the cluster. This section assumes
you are using [Cloud Endpoints](https://cloud.google.com/endpoints/) and a DNS name of the following pattern

```
https://${DEPLOYMENT_NAME}.endpoints.${PROJECT}.cloud.goog
```

Symptoms:

  * When you access the the URL in Chrome you get the error: **server IP address could not be found**
  * nslookup for the domain name doesn't return the IP address associated with the ingress

    ```
    nslookup ${DEPLOYMENT_NAME}.endpoints.${PROJECT}.cloud.goog
    Server:   127.0.0.1
    Address:  127.0.0.1#53

    ** server can't find ${DEPLOYMENT_NAME}.endpoints.${PROJECT}.cloud.goog: NXDOMAIN
    ```

Troubleshooting

1. Check the `cloudendpoints` resource

   ```
   kubectl get cloudendpoints -o yaml ${DEPLOYMENT_NAME}
   kubectl describe cloudendpoints ${DEPLOYMENT_NAME}
   ```

   * Check if there are errors indicating problems creating the endpoint

1. The status of the `cloudendpoints` object will contain the cloud operation used to register the operation

   * For example

     ```
      status:
        config: ""
        configMapHash: ""
        configSubmit: operations/serviceConfigs.jlewi-1218-001.endpoints.cloud-ml-dev.cloud.goog:43fe6c6f-eb9c-41d0-ac85-b547fc3e6e38
        endpoint: jlewi-1218-001.endpoints.cloud-ml-dev.cloud.goog
        ingressIP: 35.227.243.83
        jwtAudiences: null
        lastAppliedSig: 4f3b903a06a683b380bf1aac1deca72792472429
        observedGeneration: 1
        stateCurrent: ENDPOINT_SUBMIT_PENDING

     ```

  * You can check the status of the operation by running:

    ```
    gcloud --project=${PROJECT} endpoints operations describe ${OPERATION}
    ```

    * Operation is everything after `operations/` in the `configSubmit` field

### 404 Page Not Found When Accessing Central Dashboard

This section provides troubleshooting information for 404s, page not found, being return by the central dashboard which is served at

   ```
   https://${KUBEFLOW_FQDN}/
   ```

   * ***KUBEFLOW_FQDN*** is your project's OAuth web app URI domain name `<name>.endpoints.<project>.cloud.goog`
   * Since we were able to sign in this indicates the Ambassador reverse proxy is up and healthy we can confirm this is the case by running the following command

   ```
   kubectl -n ${NAMESPACE} get pods -l service=envoy

   NAME                     READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
   envoy-76774f8d5c-lx9bd   2/2       Running   2          4m
   envoy-76774f8d5c-ngjnr   2/2       Running   2          4m
   envoy-76774f8d5c-sg555   2/2       Running   2          4m
   ```

* Try other services to see if they're accessible for example

   ```
   https://${KUBEFLOW_FQDN}/whoami
   https://${KUBEFLOW_FQDN}/tfjobs/ui
   https://${KUBEFLOW_FQDN}/hub
   ```

 * If other services are accessible then we know its a problem specific to the central dashboard and not ingress
 * Check that the centraldashboard is running

    ```
    kubectl get pods -l app=centraldashboard
    NAME                                READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    centraldashboard-6665fc46cb-592br   1/1       Running   0          7h
    ```

 * Check a service for the central dashboard exists

    ```
    kubectl get service -o yaml centraldashboard
    ```

 * Check that an Ambassador route is properly defined

    ```
    kubectl get service centraldashboard -o jsonpath='{.metadata.annotations.getambassador\.io/config}'

    apiVersion: ambassador/v0
      kind:  Mapping
      name: centralui-mapping
      prefix: /
      rewrite: /
      service: centraldashboard.kubeflow,
    ```

 * Check the logs of Ambassador for errors. See if there are errors like the following indicating
   an error parsing the route.If you are using the new Stackdriver Kubernetes monitoring you can use the following filter in the [stackdriver console](https://console.cloud.google.com/logs/viewer)

    ```
     resource.type="k8s_container"
     resource.labels.location=${ZONE}
     resource.labels.cluster_name=${CLUSTER}
     metadata.userLabels.service="ambassador"
    "could not parse YAML"
    ```

### 502 Server Error
A 502 usually means traffic isn't even making it to the envoy reverse proxy. And it
usually indicates the loadbalancer doesn't think any backends are healthy.

* In Cloud Console select Network Services -> Load Balancing
    * Click on the load balancer (the name should contain the name of the ingress)
    * The exact name can be found by looking at the `ingress.kubernetes.io/url-map` annotation on your ingress object
       ```
       URLMAP=$(kubectl --namespace=${NAMESPACE} get ingress envoy-ingress -o jsonpath='{.metadata.annotations.ingress\.kubernetes\.io/url-map}')
       echo ${URLMAP}
       ```
    * Click on your loadbalancer
    * This will show you the backend services associated with the load balancer
        * There is 1 backend service for each K8s service the ingress rule routes traffic too
        * The named port will correspond to the NodePort a service is using

          ```
          NODE_PORT=$(kubectl --namespace=${NAMESPACE} get svc envoy -o jsonpath='{.spec.ports[0].nodePort}')
          BACKEND_NAME=$(gcloud compute --project=${PROJECT} backend-services list --filter=name~k8s-be-${NODE_PORT}- --format='value(name)')
          gcloud compute --project=${PROJECT} backend-services get-health --global ${BACKEND_NAME}
          ```
    * Make sure the load balancer reports the backends as healthy
        * If the backends aren't reported as healthy check that the pods associated with the K8s service are up and running
        * Check that health checks are properly configured
          * Click on the health check associated with the backend service for envoy
          * Check that the path is /healthz and corresponds to the path of the readiness probe on the envoy pods
          * See [K8s docs](https://github.com/kubernetes/contrib/blob/{{< params "githubbranch" >}}/ingress/controllers/gce/examples/health_checks/README.md#limitations) for important information about how health checks are determined from readiness probes.

        * Check firewall rules to ensure traffic isn't blocked from the GCP loadbalancer
            * The firewall rule should be added automatically by the ingress but its possible it got deleted if you have some automatic firewall policy enforcement. You can recreate the firewall rule if needed with a rule like this

               ```
               gcloud compute firewall-rules create $NAME \
              --project $PROJECT \
              --allow tcp:$PORT \
              --target-tags $NODE_TAG \
              --source-ranges 130.211.0.0/22,35.191.0.0/16
               ```

           * To get the node tag

              ```
              # From the Kubernetes Engine cluster get the name of the managed instance group
              gcloud --project=$PROJECT container clusters --zone=$ZONE describe $CLUSTER
              # Get the template associated with the MIG
              gcloud --project=kubeflow-rl compute instance-groups managed describe --zone=${ZONE} ${MIG_NAME}
              # Get the instance tags from the template
              gcloud --project=kubeflow-rl compute instance-templates describe ${TEMPLATE_NAME}

              ```

              For more info [see GCP HTTP health check docs](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/load-balancing/health-checks)

  * In Stackdriver Logging look at the Cloud Http Load Balancer logs

    * Logs are labeled with the forwarding rule
    * The forwarding rules are available via the annotations on the ingress
      ```
      ingress.kubernetes.io/forwarding-rule
      ingress.kubernetes.io/https-forwarding-rule
      ```

  * Verify that requests are being properly routed within the cluster
  * Connect to one of the envoy proxies

        ```
        kubectl exec -ti `kubectl get pods --selector=service=envoy -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}'` /bin/bash
        ```

  * Install curl in the pod
  ```
  apt-get update && apt-get install -y curl
  ```

  * Verify access to the whoami app
  ```
  curl -L -s -i http://envoy:8080/noiap/whoami
  ```
  * If this doesn't return a 200 OK response; then there is a problem with the K8s resources
      * Check the pods are running
      * Check services are pointing at the points (look at the endpoints for the various services)

## Envoy pods crash-looping: root cause is backend quota exceeded

If your logs show the 
[Envoy](https://istio.io/docs/concepts/what-is-istio/#envoy) pods crash-looping, 
the root cause may be that you have exceeded your quota for some 
backend services such as loadbalancers. 
This is particularly likely if you have multiple, differently named deployments 
in the same GCP project using [Cloud IAP](https://cloud.google.com/iap/).

### The error

The error looks like this for the pod's Envoy container:

```
kubectl logs -n kubeflow envoy-79ff8d86b-z2snp envoy
[2019-01-22 00:19:44.400][1][info][main] external/envoy/source/server/server.cc:184] initializing epoch 0 (hot restart version=9.200.16384.127.options=capacity=16384, num_slots=8209 hash=228984379728933363)
[2019-01-22 00:19:44.400][1][critical][main] external/envoy/source/server/server.cc:71] error initializing configuration '/etc/envoy/envoy-config.json': unable to read file: /etc/envoy/envoy-config.json
```

And the Cloud IAP container shows a message like this:

```
Waiting for backend id PROJECT=<your-project> NAMESPACE=kubeflow SERVICE=envoy filter=name~k8s-be-30352-...
```

### Diagnosing the cause

You can verify the cause of the problem by entering the following command:

```
kubectl -n kubeflow describe ingress
```

Look for something like this in the output:

```
Events:
  Type     Reason  Age                  From                     Message
  ----     ------  ----                 ----                     -------
  Warning  Sync    14m (x193 over 19h)  loadbalancer-controller  Error during sync: googleapi: Error 403: Quota 'BACKEND_SERVICES' exceeded. Limit: 5.0 globally., quotaExceeded
```

### Fixing the problem

Note: You can ignore the error you have not enabled Cloud IAP for the cluster,
that is, if you are connecting via a port-forward.

If you have any redundant Kubeflow deployments, you can delete them using
the [Deployment Manager](https://cloud.google.com/deployment-manager/docs/).

Alternatively, you can request more backend services quota on the GCP Console.

1. Go to the [quota settings for backend services on the GCP 
  Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin/quotas?metric=Backend%20services).
1. Click **EDIT QUOTAS**. A quota editing form opens on the right of the
  screen.
1. Follow the form instructions to apply for more quota.


## Legacy networks are not supported

Cloud Filestore and GKE tries to use the network named `default` by default. For older projects,
this will be a legacy network which is incompatible with Cloud Filestore and newer GKE features
like private clusters. This will
manifest as the error **"default is invalid; legacy networks are not supported"** when
deploying Kubeflow.

Here's an example error when deploying Cloud Filestore:

```
ERROR: (gcloud.deployment-manager.deployments.update) Error in Operation [operation-1533189457517-5726d7cfd19c9-e1b0b0b5-58ca11b8]: errors:
- code: RESOURCE_ERROR
  location: /deployments/jl-0801-b-gcfs/resources/filestore
  message: '{"ResourceType":"gcp-types/file-v1beta1:projects.locations.instances","ResourceErrorCode":"400","ResourceErrorMessage":{"code":400,"message":"network
    default is invalid; legacy networks are not supported.","status":"INVALID_ARGUMENT","statusMessage":"Bad
    Request","requestPath":"https://file.googleapis.com/v1beta1/projects/cloud-ml-dev/locations/us-central1-a/instances","httpMethod":"POST"}}'

```

To fix this we can create a new network:

```
cd ${KFAPP}
cp .cache/master/deployment/gke/deployment_manager_configs/network.* \
   ./gcp_config/
```

Edit `network.yaml `to set the name for the network.

Edit `gcfs.yaml` to use the name of the newly created network.

Apply the changes.

```
cd ${KFAPP}
kfctl apply platform
```

## CPU platform unavailable in requested zone

By default we set minCpuPlatform to `Intel Haswell` to make sure AVX2 is supported.
See [troubleshooting](/docs/other-guides/troubleshooting/) for more details.

If you encounter this `CPU platform unavailable` error (might manifest as
`Cluster is currently being created, deleted, updated or repaired and cannot be updated.`),
you can change the [zone](https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/blob/master/scripts/gke/deployment_manager_configs/cluster-kubeflow.yaml#L31)
or change the [minCpuPlatform](https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/blob/master/scripts/gke/deployment_manager_configs/cluster.jinja#L105).
See [here](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/regions-zones/#available)
for available zones and cpu platforms.

## Changing the OAuth client used by IAP

If you need to change the OAuth client used by IAP you can runn the following commands
to replace the K8s secret containing the id and secret.

```
kubectl -n kubeflow delete secret kubeflow-oauth
kubectl -n kubeflow create secret generic kubeflow-oauth \
       --from-literal=CLIENT_ID=${CLIENT_ID} \
       --from-literal=CLIENT_SECRET=${CLIENT_SECRET}
```
