content/en/docs/pipelines/installation/localcluster-deployment.md, before:

+++
title = "Deploying Kubeflow Pipelines on a local cluster"
description = "How to deploy Kubeflow Pipelines locally with kind, K3s, and K3ai for testing purposes"
weight = 30
+++

This guide shows how to deploy Kubeflow Pipelines standalone on a local
Kubernetes cluster using:

- kind
- K3s
- K3s on Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)
- K3ai [*alpha*]

Such deployment methods can be part of your local environment using the supplied
kustomize manifests for test purposes. This guide is an alternative to

[Deploying Kubeflow Pipelines
(KFP)](/docs/started/getting-started/#installing-kubeflow).

## Before you get started

- You should be familiar with [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/home/),
  [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/overview/), and
  [kustomize](https://kustomize.io/).

- For native support of kustomize, you will need kubectl v1.14 or higher. You
  can download and install kubectl by following the [kubectl installation
  guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/).

## kind

### 1. Installing kind

[kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io) is a tool for running local Kubernetes clusters
using Docker container nodes. `kind` was primarily designed for testing
Kubernetes itself. It can also be used for local development or CI.

You can install and configure kind by following the
[official quick start](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start/).

To get started with kind:

**On Linux:**

Download and move the `kind` executable to your directory in your PATH by
running the following commands:

```shell
curl -Lo ./kind https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/dl/{KIND_VERSION}/kind-linux-amd64 && \
chmod +x ./kind && \
mv ./kind /{YOUR_KIND_DIRECTORY}/kind
```

Replace the following:

* `{KIND_VERSION}`: the kind version; for example, `v0.8.1` as of the date this
  guide was written
* `{YOUR_KIND_DIRECTORY}`: your directory in PATH

**On macOS:**

You can use [Homebrew](https://brew.sh) to install kind:

```shell
brew install kind`
```

**On Windows:**

- You can use the administrative PowerShell console to run the following
  commands to download and move the `kind` executable to a directory in your
  PATH:

- **PowerShell:** Run these commands to download and move the `kind` executable
  to a directory in your PATH:

  ```powershell
  curl.exe -Lo kind-windows-amd64.exe https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/dl/{KIND_VERSION}/kind-windows-amd64
  Move-Item .\kind-windows-amd64.exe c:\{YOUR_KIND_DIRECTORY}\kind.exe
  ```

  Replace the following:

  - `{KIND_VERSION}`: the kind version - for example, `v0.9` (check the latest
  stable binary versions on the [kind releases
  pages](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kind/releases))
  - `{YOUR_KIND_DIRECTORY}`: your directory for kind in PATH

* `{KIND_VERSION}`: the kind version; for example, `v0.8.1` as of the date this
  guide was written
* `{YOUR_KIND_DIRECTORY}`: your directory in PATH

- Alternatively, you can use Chocolatey [https://chocolatey.org/packages/kind](https://chocolatey.org/packages/kind):

  ```SHELL
  choco install kind
  ```

**Note:** kind uses containerd as a default container-runtime hence you cannot
use the standard kubeflow pipeline manifests.

**References**:

**References:**

- [kind: Quick Start Guide](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start/)
- [kind: Known Issues](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/known-issues/)
- [kind: Working Offline](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/working-offline/)

### 2. Creating a cluster on kind

Having installed kind, you can create a Kubernetes cluster on kind with this
command:

```shell
kind create cluster
```

This will bootstrap a Kubernetes cluster using a pre-built node image. You can
find that image on the Docker Hub `kindest/node`
[here](https://hub.docker.com/r/kindest/node). If you wish to build the node
image yourself, you can use the `kind build node-image` command—see the official
[building
image](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start/#building-images) section
for more details. And, to specify another image, use the `--image` flag.

By default, the cluster will be given the name kind. Use the `--name` flag to
assign the cluster a different context name.

## K3s

### 1. Setting up a cluster on K3s

K3s is a fully compliant Kubernetes distribution with the following
enhancements:

* Packaged as a single binary.
* Lightweight storage backend based on sqlite3 as the default storage mechanism.
  etcd3, MySQL, Postgres also still available.
* Wrapped in simple launcher that handles a lot of the complexity of TLS and
  options.
* Secure by default with reasonable defaults for lightweight environments.
* Simple but powerful “batteries-included” features have been added, such as: a
  local storage provider, a service load balancer, a Helm controller, and the
  Traefik ingress controller.
* Operation of all Kubernetes control plane components is encapsulated in a
  single binary and process. This allows K3s to automate and manage complex
  cluster operations like distributing certificates.
* External dependencies have been minimized (just a modern kernel and cgroup
  mounts needed). K3s packages required dependencies, including:

  * containerd
  * Flannel
  * CoreDNS
  * CNI
  * Host utilities (iptables, socat, etc)
  * Ingress controller (traefik)
  * Embedded service loadbalancer
  * Embedded network policy controller

You can find the the official K3s installation script to install it as a service
on systemd- or openrc-based systems on the official
[K3s website](https://get.k3s.io).

To install K3s using that method, run the following command:

```SHELL
curl -sfL https://get.k3s.io | sh -
```

**References**:

* [K3s: Quick Start Guide](https://rancher.com/docs/k3s/latest/en/quick-start/)

* [K3s: Known Issues](https://rancher.com/docs/k3s/latest/en/known-issues/)

* [K3s: FAQ](https://rancher.com/docs/k3s/latest/en/faq/)

### 2. Creating a cluster on K3s

1. To create a Kubernetes cluster on K3s, use the following command:

    ```shell
    sudo k3s server &
    ```

    This will bootstrap a Kubernetes cluster kubeconfig is written to
    `/etc/rancher/k3s/k3s.yaml`.

    ```shell
    sudo k3s kubectl get node
    ```

2. (Optional) Check your cluster:

    ```shell
    sudo k3s kubectl get node
    ```

    K3s embeds the popular kubectl command directly in the binaries, so you may
   immediately interact with the cluster through it.

3. (Optional) Run the below command on a different node. `NODE_TOKEN` comes from
   `/var/lib/rancher/k3s/server/node-token` on your server:

    ```shell
    sudo k3s agent --server https://myserver:6443 --token {YOUR_NODE_TOKEN}
    ```

## K3s on Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)

### 1. Setting up a cluster on K3s on Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)

The Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) lets developers run a GNU/Linux
environment—including most command-line tools, utilities, and applications—
directly on Windows, unmodified, without the overhead of a traditional virtual
machine or dualboot setup.

The full instructions for installing WSL can be found on the
[official Windows site](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10).

The following steps summarize what you'll need to set up WSL and then K3s on
WSL.

1. Install [WSL] by following the official [docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10).

2. As per the official instructions, update WSL and download your preferred
   distibution:

- [SUSE Linux Enterprise Server 15
  SP1](https://www.microsoft.com/store/apps/9PN498VPMF3Z)
- [openSUSE Leap 15.2](https://www.microsoft.com/store/apps/9MZD0N9Z4M4H)
- [Ubuntu 18.04 LTS](https://www.microsoft.com/store/apps/9N9TNGVNDL3Q)
- [Debian GNU/Linux](https://www.microsoft.com/store/apps/9MSVKQC78PK6)

**References**:

* [K3s on WSL: Quick Start Guide](https://gist.github.com/ibuildthecloud/1b7d6940552ada6d37f54c71a89f7d00)

### 2. Creating a cluster on K3s on WSL

Below are the steps to create a cluster on K3s in WSL

1. To create a Kubernetes cluster on K3s on WSL, run the following command:

    ```shell
    sudo ./k3s server
    ```

    This will bootstrap a Kubernetes cluster but you will cannot yet access from
    your Windows machine to the cluster itself.

    **Note:** You can't install K3s using the curl script because there is no
    supervisor (systemd or openrc) in WSL.

2. Download the K3s binary from https://github.com/rancher/k3s/releases/latest.
   Then, inside the directory where you download the K3s binary to, run this
   command to add execute permission to the K3s binary:

    ```shell
    chmod +x k3s
    ```

3. Start K3s:

    ```shell
    sudo ./k3s server
    ```

### 3. Setting up access to WSL instance

To set up access to your WSL instance:

1. Copy `/etc/rancher/k3s/k3s.yaml` from WSL to `$HOME/.kube/config`.

2. Edit the copied file by changing the server URL from `https://localhost:6443`
   to the IP of the your WSL instance (`ip addr show dev eth0`) (For example,
   `https://192.168.170.170:6443`.)

3. Run kubectl in a Windows terminal. If you don't kubectl installed, follow the
   official [Kubernetes on Windows instructions](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/#install-kubectl-on-windows).

## K3ai [*alpha*]

K3ai is a lightweight "infrastructure in a box" designed specifically to install
and configure AI tools and platforms on portable hardware, such as laptops and
edge devices. This enables users to perform quick experimentations with Kubeflow
on a local cluster.

K3ai's main goal is to provide a quick way to install Kubernetes (K3s-based) and
Kubeflow Pipelines with NVIDIA GPU support and TensorFlow Serving with just one
line. (For Kubeflow and other component support, check [K3ai's
website](https://kf5ai.gitbook.io/k3ai/#components-of-k-3-ai) for updates.) To
install Kubeflow Pipelines using K3ai, run the following commands:

- With CPU-only support:

```SHELL
curl -sfL https://get.k3ai.in | bash -s -- --cpu --plugin_kfpipelines
```

- With GPU support:

```SHELL
curl -sfL https://get.k3ai.in | bash -s -- --gpu --plugin_kfpipelines
```

For more information about K3ai, refer to the
[official documentation](https://docs.k3ai.in).

## Deploying Kubeflow Pipelines

The installation process for Kubeflow Pipelines is the same for all three
environments covered in this guide: kind, K3s, and K3ai.

**Note**: Process Namespace Sharing (PNS) is not mature in Argo yet - for more
information go to [Argo
Executors](https://argoproj.github.io/argo/workflow-executors/) and reference
"pns executors" in any issue you may come across when using PNS.

1. To deploy the Kubeflow Pipelines, run the following commands:

    ```shell
    # env/platform-agnostic-pns hasn't been publically released, so you will install it from master
    export PIPELINE_VERSION={{% pipelines/latest-version %}}
    kubectl apply -k "github.com/kubeflow/pipelines/manifests/kustomize/cluster-scoped-resources?ref=$PIPELINE_VERSION"
    kubectl wait --for condition=established --timeout=60s crd/applications.app.k8s.io
    kubectl apply -k "github.com/kubeflow/pipelines/manifests/kustomize/env/platform-agnostic-pns?ref=$PIPELINE_VERSION"
    ```

    The Kubeflow Pipelines deployment may take several minutes to complete.


    **Note**: `kubectl apply -k` accepts local paths and paths that are
    formatted as
    [hashicorp/go-getter URLs](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize/blob/master/examples/remoteBuild.md#url-format).
    While the paths in the preceding commands look like URLs, they are not valid
    URLs.

## Uninstalling Kubeflow Pipelines

Below are the steps to remove Kubeflow Pipelines on kind, K3s, or K3ai:

- To uninstall Kubeflow Pipelines using your manifest file, run the following command,
  replacing `{YOUR_MANIFEST_FILE}` with the name of your manifest file:

  ```shell
  kubectl delete -k {YOUR_MANIFEST_FILE}`
  ```

- To uninstall Kubeflow Pipelines using manifests from Kubeflow Pipelines's
  GitHub repository, run these commands:

  ```shell
  export PIPELINE_VERSION={{% pipelines/latest-version %}}
  kubectl delete -k "github.com/kubeflow/pipelines/manifests/kustomize/env/platform-agnostic-pns?ref=$PIPELINE_VERSION"
  kubectl delete -k "github.com/kubeflow/pipelines/manifests/kustomize/cluster-scoped-resources?ref=$PIPELINE_VERSION"
  ```

- To uninstall Kubeflow Pipelines using manifests from your local repository or
  file system, run the following commands:

  ```shell
  kubectl delete -k manifests/kustomize/env/platform-agnostic-pns
  kubectl delete -k manifests/kustomize/cluster-scoped-resources
  ```

Commit message:

[docs:] Fix missing port-foward URL
Apparently, in the last rework, we deleted the port-forward section that helps folks to be able to use the pipelines UI.

content/en/docs/pipelines/installation/localcluster-deployment.md, after:

+++
title = "Deploying Kubeflow Pipelines on a local cluster"
description = "How to deploy Kubeflow Pipelines locally with kind, K3s, and K3ai for testing purposes"
weight = 30
+++

This guide shows how to deploy Kubeflow Pipelines standalone on a local
Kubernetes cluster using:

- kind
- K3s
- K3s on Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)
- K3ai [*alpha*]

Such deployment methods can be part of your local environment using the supplied
kustomize manifests for test purposes. This guide is an alternative to

[Deploying Kubeflow Pipelines
(KFP)](/docs/started/getting-started/#installing-kubeflow).

## Before you get started

- You should be familiar with [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/home/),
  [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/overview/), and
  [kustomize](https://kustomize.io/).

- For native support of kustomize, you will need kubectl v1.14 or higher. You
  can download and install kubectl by following the [kubectl installation
  guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/).

## kind

### 1. Installing kind

[kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io) is a tool for running local Kubernetes clusters
using Docker container nodes. `kind` was primarily designed for testing
Kubernetes itself. It can also be used for local development or CI.

You can install and configure kind by following the
[official quick start](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start/).

To get started with kind:

**On Linux:**

Download and move the `kind` executable to your directory in your PATH by
running the following commands:

```shell
curl -Lo ./kind https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/dl/{KIND_VERSION}/kind-linux-amd64 && \
chmod +x ./kind && \
mv ./kind /{YOUR_KIND_DIRECTORY}/kind
```

Replace the following:

* `{KIND_VERSION}`: the kind version; for example, `v0.8.1` as of the date this
  guide was written
* `{YOUR_KIND_DIRECTORY}`: your directory in PATH

**On macOS:**

You can use [Homebrew](https://brew.sh) to install kind:

```shell
brew install kind`
```

**On Windows:**

- You can use the administrative PowerShell console to run the following
  commands to download and move the `kind` executable to a directory in your
  PATH:

- **PowerShell:** Run these commands to download and move the `kind` executable
  to a directory in your PATH:

  ```powershell
  curl.exe -Lo kind-windows-amd64.exe https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/dl/{KIND_VERSION}/kind-windows-amd64
  Move-Item .\kind-windows-amd64.exe c:\{YOUR_KIND_DIRECTORY}\kind.exe
  ```

  Replace the following:

  - `{KIND_VERSION}`: the kind version - for example, `v0.9` (check the latest
  stable binary versions on the [kind releases
  pages](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kind/releases))
  - `{YOUR_KIND_DIRECTORY}`: your directory for kind in PATH

* `{KIND_VERSION}`: the kind version; for example, `v0.8.1` as of the date this
  guide was written
* `{YOUR_KIND_DIRECTORY}`: your directory in PATH

- Alternatively, you can use Chocolatey [https://chocolatey.org/packages/kind](https://chocolatey.org/packages/kind):

  ```SHELL
  choco install kind
  ```

**Note:** kind uses containerd as a default container-runtime hence you cannot
use the standard kubeflow pipeline manifests.

**References**:

**References:**

- [kind: Quick Start Guide](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start/)
- [kind: Known Issues](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/known-issues/)
- [kind: Working Offline](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/working-offline/)

### 2. Creating a cluster on kind

Having installed kind, you can create a Kubernetes cluster on kind with this
command:

```shell
kind create cluster
```

This will bootstrap a Kubernetes cluster using a pre-built node image. You can
find that image on the Docker Hub `kindest/node`
[here](https://hub.docker.com/r/kindest/node). If you wish to build the node
image yourself, you can use the `kind build node-image` command—see the official
[building
image](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start/#building-images) section
for more details. And, to specify another image, use the `--image` flag.

By default, the cluster will be given the name kind. Use the `--name` flag to
assign the cluster a different context name.

## K3s

### 1. Setting up a cluster on K3s

K3s is a fully compliant Kubernetes distribution with the following
enhancements:

* Packaged as a single binary.
* Lightweight storage backend based on sqlite3 as the default storage mechanism.
  etcd3, MySQL, Postgres also still available.
* Wrapped in simple launcher that handles a lot of the complexity of TLS and
  options.
* Secure by default with reasonable defaults for lightweight environments.
* Simple but powerful “batteries-included” features have been added, such as: a
  local storage provider, a service load balancer, a Helm controller, and the
  Traefik ingress controller.
* Operation of all Kubernetes control plane components is encapsulated in a
  single binary and process. This allows K3s to automate and manage complex
  cluster operations like distributing certificates.
* External dependencies have been minimized (just a modern kernel and cgroup
  mounts needed). K3s packages required dependencies, including:

  * containerd
  * Flannel
  * CoreDNS
  * CNI
  * Host utilities (iptables, socat, etc)
  * Ingress controller (traefik)
  * Embedded service loadbalancer
  * Embedded network policy controller

You can find the the official K3s installation script to install it as a service
on systemd- or openrc-based systems on the official
[K3s website](https://get.k3s.io).

To install K3s using that method, run the following command:

```SHELL
curl -sfL https://get.k3s.io | sh -
```

**References**:

* [K3s: Quick Start Guide](https://rancher.com/docs/k3s/latest/en/quick-start/)

* [K3s: Known Issues](https://rancher.com/docs/k3s/latest/en/known-issues/)

* [K3s: FAQ](https://rancher.com/docs/k3s/latest/en/faq/)

### 2. Creating a cluster on K3s

1. To create a Kubernetes cluster on K3s, use the following command:

    ```shell
    sudo k3s server &
    ```

    This will bootstrap a Kubernetes cluster kubeconfig is written to
    `/etc/rancher/k3s/k3s.yaml`.

    ```shell
    sudo k3s kubectl get node
    ```

2. (Optional) Check your cluster:

    ```shell
    sudo k3s kubectl get node
    ```

    K3s embeds the popular kubectl command directly in the binaries, so you may
   immediately interact with the cluster through it.

3. (Optional) Run the below command on a different node. `NODE_TOKEN` comes from
   `/var/lib/rancher/k3s/server/node-token` on your server:

    ```shell
    sudo k3s agent --server https://myserver:6443 --token {YOUR_NODE_TOKEN}
    ```

## K3s on Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)

### 1. Setting up a cluster on K3s on Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)

The Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) lets developers run a GNU/Linux
environment—including most command-line tools, utilities, and applications—
directly on Windows, unmodified, without the overhead of a traditional virtual
machine or dualboot setup.

The full instructions for installing WSL can be found on the
[official Windows site](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10).

The following steps summarize what you'll need to set up WSL and then K3s on
WSL.

1. Install [WSL] by following the official [docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10).

2. As per the official instructions, update WSL and download your preferred
   distibution:

- [SUSE Linux Enterprise Server 15
  SP1](https://www.microsoft.com/store/apps/9PN498VPMF3Z)
- [openSUSE Leap 15.2](https://www.microsoft.com/store/apps/9MZD0N9Z4M4H)
- [Ubuntu 18.04 LTS](https://www.microsoft.com/store/apps/9N9TNGVNDL3Q)
- [Debian GNU/Linux](https://www.microsoft.com/store/apps/9MSVKQC78PK6)

**References**:

* [K3s on WSL: Quick Start Guide](https://gist.github.com/ibuildthecloud/1b7d6940552ada6d37f54c71a89f7d00)

### 2. Creating a cluster on K3s on WSL

Below are the steps to create a cluster on K3s in WSL

1. To create a Kubernetes cluster on K3s on WSL, run the following command:

    ```shell
    sudo ./k3s server
    ```

    This will bootstrap a Kubernetes cluster but you will cannot yet access from
    your Windows machine to the cluster itself.

    **Note:** You can't install K3s using the curl script because there is no
    supervisor (systemd or openrc) in WSL.

2. Download the K3s binary from https://github.com/rancher/k3s/releases/latest.
   Then, inside the directory where you download the K3s binary to, run this
   command to add execute permission to the K3s binary:

    ```shell
    chmod +x k3s
    ```

3. Start K3s:

    ```shell
    sudo ./k3s server
    ```

### 3. Setting up access to WSL instance

To set up access to your WSL instance:

1. Copy `/etc/rancher/k3s/k3s.yaml` from WSL to `$HOME/.kube/config`.

2. Edit the copied file by changing the server URL from `https://localhost:6443`
   to the IP of the your WSL instance (`ip addr show dev eth0`) (For example,
   `https://192.168.170.170:6443`.)

3. Run kubectl in a Windows terminal. If you don't kubectl installed, follow the
   official [Kubernetes on Windows instructions](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/#install-kubectl-on-windows).

## K3ai [*alpha*]

K3ai is a lightweight "infrastructure in a box" designed specifically to install
and configure AI tools and platforms on portable hardware, such as laptops and
edge devices. This enables users to perform quick experimentations with Kubeflow
on a local cluster.

K3ai's main goal is to provide a quick way to install Kubernetes (K3s-based) and
Kubeflow Pipelines with NVIDIA GPU support and TensorFlow Serving with just one
line. (For Kubeflow and other component support, check [K3ai's
website](https://kf5ai.gitbook.io/k3ai/#components-of-k-3-ai) for updates.) To
install Kubeflow Pipelines using K3ai, run the following commands:

- With CPU-only support:

```SHELL
curl -sfL https://get.k3ai.in | bash -s -- --cpu --plugin_kfpipelines
```

- With GPU support:

```SHELL
curl -sfL https://get.k3ai.in | bash -s -- --gpu --plugin_kfpipelines
```

For more information about K3ai, refer to the
[official documentation](https://docs.k3ai.in).

## Deploying Kubeflow Pipelines

The installation process for Kubeflow Pipelines is the same for all three
environments covered in this guide: kind, K3s, and K3ai.

**Note**: Process Namespace Sharing (PNS) is not mature in Argo yet - for more
information go to [Argo
Executors](https://argoproj.github.io/argo/workflow-executors/) and reference
"pns executors" in any issue you may come across when using PNS.

1. To deploy the Kubeflow Pipelines, run the following commands:

    ```shell
    # env/platform-agnostic-pns hasn't been publically released, so you will install it from master
    export PIPELINE_VERSION={{% pipelines/latest-version %}}
    kubectl apply -k "github.com/kubeflow/pipelines/manifests/kustomize/cluster-scoped-resources?ref=$PIPELINE_VERSION"
    kubectl wait --for condition=established --timeout=60s crd/applications.app.k8s.io
    kubectl apply -k "github.com/kubeflow/pipelines/manifests/kustomize/env/platform-agnostic-pns?ref=$PIPELINE_VERSION"
    ```

    The Kubeflow Pipelines deployment may take several minutes to complete.
    2. Verify that the Kubeflow Pipelines UI is accessible by port-forwarding:

   ```SHELL
   kubectl port-forward -n kubeflow svc/ml-pipeline-ui 8080:80
   ```

Open the Kubeflow Pipelines UI at http://localhost:8080/ or if you are using Kind or K3s within a VM http://{VM IP ADDRESS}:8080/
Please note that K3ai will automatically print the right UI URL at the end of the installation process.


    **Note**: `kubectl apply -k` accepts local paths and paths that are
    formatted as
    [hashicorp/go-getter URLs](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize/blob/master/examples/remoteBuild.md#url-format).
    While the paths in the preceding commands look like URLs, they are not valid
    URLs.

## Uninstalling Kubeflow Pipelines

Below are the steps to remove Kubeflow Pipelines on kind, K3s, or K3ai:

- To uninstall Kubeflow Pipelines using your manifest file, run the following command,
  replacing `{YOUR_MANIFEST_FILE}` with the name of your manifest file:

  ```shell
  kubectl delete -k {YOUR_MANIFEST_FILE}`
  ```

- To uninstall Kubeflow Pipelines using manifests from Kubeflow Pipelines's
  GitHub repository, run these commands:

  ```shell
  export PIPELINE_VERSION={{% pipelines/latest-version %}}
  kubectl delete -k "github.com/kubeflow/pipelines/manifests/kustomize/env/platform-agnostic-pns?ref=$PIPELINE_VERSION"
  kubectl delete -k "github.com/kubeflow/pipelines/manifests/kustomize/cluster-scoped-resources?ref=$PIPELINE_VERSION"
  ```

- To uninstall Kubeflow Pipelines using manifests from your local repository or
  file system, run the following commands:

  ```shell
  kubectl delete -k manifests/kustomize/env/platform-agnostic-pns
  kubectl delete -k manifests/kustomize/cluster-scoped-resources
  ```
