content/docs/components/misc/metadata.md, before:

+++
title = "Metadata"
description = "Tracking and managing metadata of machine learning workflows in Kubeflow"
weight = 5
+++

The goal of the [Metadata](https://github.com/kubeflow/metadata) project is to 
help Kubeflow users understand and manage their machine learning (ML) workflows
by tracking and managing the metadata that the workflows produce. 

In this context, _metadata_ means information about executions (runs), models, 
datasets, and other artifacts. _Artifacts_ are the files and objects that form 
the inputs and outputs of the components in your ML workflow.

{{% alert title="Alpha version" color="warning" %}}
This is an <b>alpha</b> release of the Metadata API. The next version of Kubeflow
may introduce breaking changes. The development team is interested in any
feedback you have while using the Metadata component, and in particular your
feedback on any gaps in the functionality that the component offers.
{{% /alert %}}

## Installing the Metadata component

Kubeflow v0.6.1 and later versions install the Metadata component by default.
You can skip this section if you are running Kubeflow v0.6.1 or later.

If you want to install the latest version of the Metadata component or to
install the component as an application in your Kubernetes cluster, follow these 
steps:

1. Download the Kubeflow manifests repository:

    ```
    git clone https://github.com/kubeflow/manifests
    ```

2. Run the following commands to deploy the services of the Metadata component:

    ```
    cd manifests/metadata/base
    kustomize build . | kubectl apply -n kubeflow -f -
    ```

## Using the Metadata SDK to record metadata

The Metadata project publishes a 
[Python library (SDK)](https://github.com/kubeflow/metadata/tree/master/sdk/python#python-client)
that you can use to log (record) your metadata.

Run the following command to install the Metadata SDK:

```
pip install kubeflow-metadata
```

<a id="demo-notebook"></a>
### Try the Metadata SDK in a sample Jupyter notebook

You can find an example of how to use the Metadata SDK in this 
[`demo` notebook](https://github.com/kubeflow/metadata/blob/master/sdk/python/sample/demo.ipynb).

To run the notebook in your Kubeflow cluster:

1. Follow the guide to 
  [setting up your Jupyter notebooks in Kubeflow](/docs/notebooks/setup/).
1. Go to the [`demo` notebook on GitHub](https://github.com/kubeflow/metadata/blob/master/sdk/python/sample/demo.ipynb).
1. Download the notebook code by opening the **Raw** view of the file, then
  right-clicking on the content and saving the file locally as `demo.ipynb`.
1. Go back to your Jupyter notebook server in the Kubeflow UI. (If you've
  moved away from the notebooks section in Kubeflow, click
  **Notebook Servers** in the left-hand navigation panel to get back there.)
1. In the Jupyter notebook UI, click **Upload** and follow the prompts to upload
  the `demo.ipynb` notebook.
1. Click the notebook name (`demo.ipynb`) to open the notebook in your Kubeflow
  cluster.
1. Run the steps in the notebook to install and use the Metadata SDK.

When you have finished running through the steps in the `demo.ipynb` notebook,
you can view the resulting metadata on the Kubeflow UI:

1. Click **Artifact Store** in the left-hand navigation panel on the Kubeflow 
  UI.
1. On the **Artifacts** screen you should see the following items:

  * A **model** metadata item with the name **MNIST**.
  * A **metrics** metadata item with the name **MNIST-evaluation**.
  * A **dataset** metadata item with the name **mytable-dump**.

    You can click the name of each item to view the details. See the section
    below about the [Metadata UI](#metadata-ui) for more details. 

### Learn more about the Metadata SDK

The Metadata SDK includes the following
[predefined types](https://github.com/kubeflow/metadata/tree/master/schema)
that you can use to describe your ML workflows:

* [`data_set.json`](https://github.com/kubeflow/metadata/blob/master/schema/alpha/artifacts/data_set.json)
  to capture metadata for a dataset that forms the input into or the output of
  a component in your workflow.
* [`execution.json`](https://github.com/kubeflow/metadata/blob/master/schema/alpha/execution.json)
  to capture metadata for an execution (run) of your ML workflow.
* [`metrics.json`](https://github.com/kubeflow/metadata/blob/master/schema/alpha/artifacts/metrics.json)
  to capture metadata for the metrics used to evaluate an ML model.
* [`model.json`](https://github.com/kubeflow/metadata/blob/master/schema/alpha/artifacts/model.json)
  to capture metadata for an ML model that your workflow produces.

<a id="metadata-ui"></a>
## Tracking artifacts on the Metadata UI

You can view a list of logged artifacts and the details of each individual 
artifact in the **Artifact Store** on the Kubeflow UI.

1. Go to Kubeflow in your browser. (If you haven't yet opened the 
  Kubeflow UI, find out how to [access the
  Kubeflow UIs](https://www.kubeflow.org/docs/other-guides/accessing-uis/).)
1. Click **Artifact Store** in the left-hand navigation panel:
  <img src="/docs/images/metadata-ui-option.png" 
    alt="Metadata UI"
    class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">

1. The **Artifacts** screen opens and displays a list of items for all the
  metadata events that your workflows have logged. You can click the name of 
  each item to view the details. 
  
    The following examples show the items that appear when you run the 
    `demo.ipynb` notebook described [above](#demo-notebook):

    <img src="/docs/images/metadata-artifacts-list.png" 
    alt="A list of metadata items"
    class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">

  * Example of **model** metadata with the name "MNIST":

        <img src="/docs/images/metadata-model.png" 
          alt="Model metadata for an example MNIST model"
          class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">

  * Example of **metrics** metadata with the name "MNIST-evaluation":

        <img src="/docs/images/metadata-metrics.png" 
          alt="Metrics metadata for an evaluation of an MNIST model"
          class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">

  * Example of **dataset** metadata with the name "mytable-dump":

        <img src="/docs/images/metadata-dataset.png" 
          alt="Dataset metadata"
          class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">



## Backend and REST API

The Kubeflow metadata backend uses [ML Metadata
(MLMD)](https://github.com/google/ml-metadata/blob/master/g3doc/get_started.md) 
to manage the metadata and relationships. 

The backend exposes a 
[REST API](/docs/reference/metadata/v1alpha1/kubeflow-metadata-api-spec/).

You can add your own metadata types so that you can log metadata for custom
artifacts. To add a custom type, send a REST API request to the
[`artifact_types` endpoint](/docs/reference/metadata/v1alpha1/kubeflow-metadata-api-spec/#operation--api-v1alpha1-artifact_types-post). 

For example, The following request registers an artifact type with 
_name_ `myorg/mytype/v1` and three _properties_: 

* `f1` (string)
* `f2` (integer)
* `f3` (double)

```
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/api/v1alpha1/artifact_types \
  --header "Content-Type: application/json" -d \
  '{"name":"myorg/mytype/v1","properties":{"f1":"STRING", "f2":"INT", "f3": "DOUBLE"}}'
```

## Next steps

Run the 
[xgboost-synthetic notebook](https://github.com/kubeflow/examples/tree/master/xgboost_synthetic)
to build, train, and deploy an XGBoost model using Kubeflow Fairing and Kubeflow
Pipelines with synthetic data. Examine the metadata output after running
through the steps in the notebook.

Commit message:

Add a paragraph to introduce the metadata watcher (#1285)
* Add a paragraph to introduce the metadata watcher

Initial introduction to metadata watcher by pointing to the Github readme.

Once the watcher is more mature, we can expand this section.

* add a new section

content/docs/components/misc/metadata.md, after:

+++
title = "Metadata"
description = "Tracking and managing metadata of machine learning workflows in Kubeflow"
weight = 5
+++

The goal of the [Metadata](https://github.com/kubeflow/metadata) project is to 
help Kubeflow users understand and manage their machine learning (ML) workflows
by tracking and managing the metadata that the workflows produce. 

In this context, _metadata_ means information about executions (runs), models, 
datasets, and other artifacts. _Artifacts_ are the files and objects that form 
the inputs and outputs of the components in your ML workflow.

{{% alert title="Alpha version" color="warning" %}}
This is an <b>alpha</b> release of the Metadata API. The next version of Kubeflow
may introduce breaking changes. The development team is interested in any
feedback you have while using the Metadata component, and in particular your
feedback on any gaps in the functionality that the component offers.
{{% /alert %}}

## Installing the Metadata component

Kubeflow v0.6.1 and later versions install the Metadata component by default.
You can skip this section if you are running Kubeflow v0.6.1 or later.

If you want to install the latest version of the Metadata component or to
install the component as an application in your Kubernetes cluster, follow these 
steps:

1. Download the Kubeflow manifests repository:

    ```
    git clone https://github.com/kubeflow/manifests
    ```

2. Run the following commands to deploy the services of the Metadata component:

    ```
    cd manifests/metadata/base
    kustomize build . | kubectl apply -n kubeflow -f -
    ```

## Using the Metadata SDK to record metadata

The Metadata project publishes a 
[Python library (SDK)](https://github.com/kubeflow/metadata/tree/master/sdk/python#python-client)
that you can use to log (record) your metadata.

Run the following command to install the Metadata SDK:

```
pip install kubeflow-metadata
```

<a id="demo-notebook"></a>
### Try the Metadata SDK in a sample Jupyter notebook

You can find an example of how to use the Metadata SDK in this 
[`demo` notebook](https://github.com/kubeflow/metadata/blob/master/sdk/python/sample/demo.ipynb).

To run the notebook in your Kubeflow cluster:

1. Follow the guide to 
  [setting up your Jupyter notebooks in Kubeflow](/docs/notebooks/setup/).
1. Go to the [`demo` notebook on GitHub](https://github.com/kubeflow/metadata/blob/master/sdk/python/sample/demo.ipynb).
1. Download the notebook code by opening the **Raw** view of the file, then
  right-clicking on the content and saving the file locally as `demo.ipynb`.
1. Go back to your Jupyter notebook server in the Kubeflow UI. (If you've
  moved away from the notebooks section in Kubeflow, click
  **Notebook Servers** in the left-hand navigation panel to get back there.)
1. In the Jupyter notebook UI, click **Upload** and follow the prompts to upload
  the `demo.ipynb` notebook.
1. Click the notebook name (`demo.ipynb`) to open the notebook in your Kubeflow
  cluster.
1. Run the steps in the notebook to install and use the Metadata SDK.

When you have finished running through the steps in the `demo.ipynb` notebook,
you can view the resulting metadata on the Kubeflow UI:

1. Click **Artifact Store** in the left-hand navigation panel on the Kubeflow 
  UI.
1. On the **Artifacts** screen you should see the following items:

  * A **model** metadata item with the name **MNIST**.
  * A **metrics** metadata item with the name **MNIST-evaluation**.
  * A **dataset** metadata item with the name **mytable-dump**.

    You can click the name of each item to view the details. See the section
    below about the [Metadata UI](#metadata-ui) for more details. 

### Learn more about the Metadata SDK

The Metadata SDK includes the following
[predefined types](https://github.com/kubeflow/metadata/tree/master/schema)
that you can use to describe your ML workflows:

* [`data_set.json`](https://github.com/kubeflow/metadata/blob/master/schema/alpha/artifacts/data_set.json)
  to capture metadata for a dataset that forms the input into or the output of
  a component in your workflow.
* [`execution.json`](https://github.com/kubeflow/metadata/blob/master/schema/alpha/execution.json)
  to capture metadata for an execution (run) of your ML workflow.
* [`metrics.json`](https://github.com/kubeflow/metadata/blob/master/schema/alpha/artifacts/metrics.json)
  to capture metadata for the metrics used to evaluate an ML model.
* [`model.json`](https://github.com/kubeflow/metadata/blob/master/schema/alpha/artifacts/model.json)
  to capture metadata for an ML model that your workflow produces.

<a id="metadata-ui"></a>

## Using metadata watcher to record metadata

Besides using the Python SDK to log metadata directly, you can add your own [metadata watcher](https://github.com/kubeflow/metadata/blob/master/watcher/README.md) to watch Kubernetes resource changes and save the metadata into the metadata service.

## Tracking artifacts on the Metadata UI

You can view a list of logged artifacts and the details of each individual 
artifact in the **Artifact Store** on the Kubeflow UI.

1. Go to Kubeflow in your browser. (If you haven't yet opened the 
  Kubeflow UI, find out how to [access the
  Kubeflow UIs](https://www.kubeflow.org/docs/other-guides/accessing-uis/).)
1. Click **Artifact Store** in the left-hand navigation panel:
  <img src="/docs/images/metadata-ui-option.png" 
    alt="Metadata UI"
    class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">

1. The **Artifacts** screen opens and displays a list of items for all the
  metadata events that your workflows have logged. You can click the name of 
  each item to view the details. 
  
    The following examples show the items that appear when you run the 
    `demo.ipynb` notebook described [above](#demo-notebook):

    <img src="/docs/images/metadata-artifacts-list.png" 
    alt="A list of metadata items"
    class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">

  * Example of **model** metadata with the name "MNIST":

        <img src="/docs/images/metadata-model.png" 
          alt="Model metadata for an example MNIST model"
          class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">

  * Example of **metrics** metadata with the name "MNIST-evaluation":

        <img src="/docs/images/metadata-metrics.png" 
          alt="Metrics metadata for an evaluation of an MNIST model"
          class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">

  * Example of **dataset** metadata with the name "mytable-dump":

        <img src="/docs/images/metadata-dataset.png" 
          alt="Dataset metadata"
          class="mt-3 mb-3 border border-info rounded">



## Backend and REST API

The Kubeflow metadata backend uses [ML Metadata
(MLMD)](https://github.com/google/ml-metadata/blob/master/g3doc/get_started.md) 
to manage the metadata and relationships. 

The backend exposes a 
[REST API](/docs/reference/metadata/v1alpha1/kubeflow-metadata-api-spec/).

You can add your own metadata types so that you can log metadata for custom
artifacts. To add a custom type, send a REST API request to the
[`artifact_types` endpoint](/docs/reference/metadata/v1alpha1/kubeflow-metadata-api-spec/#operation--api-v1alpha1-artifact_types-post). 

For example, The following request registers an artifact type with 
_name_ `myorg/mytype/v1` and three _properties_: 

* `f1` (string)
* `f2` (integer)
* `f3` (double)

```
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/api/v1alpha1/artifact_types \
  --header "Content-Type: application/json" -d \
  '{"name":"myorg/mytype/v1","properties":{"f1":"STRING", "f2":"INT", "f3": "DOUBLE"}}'
```

## Next steps

Run the 
[xgboost-synthetic notebook](https://github.com/kubeflow/examples/tree/master/xgboost_synthetic)
to build, train, and deploy an XGBoost model using Kubeflow Fairing and Kubeflow
Pipelines with synthetic data. Examine the metadata output after running
through the steps in the notebook.
