content/en/docs/ibm/deploy/install-kubeflow.md, before:

+++
title = "Install Kubeflow"
description = "Instructions for deploying Kubeflow with the shell"
weight = 5
+++

This guide describes how to use the kfctl binary to deploy Kubeflow on IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service (IKS).

## Prerequisites

* Authenticating with IBM Cloud

  ```shell
  ibmcloud login
  ```

* Accessing the IBM Cloud cluster

  If you do not have access to a cluster created with IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service, follow the [Create an IBM Cloud cluster](/docs/ibm/create-cluster) guide to create a cluster.

  Run following command to switch the Kubernetes context and access the cluster.

  ```shell
  ibmcloud ks cluster config --cluster <cluster_name>
  ```

  Replace `<cluster_name>` with your cluster name.

## IBM Cloud Block Storage Setup

**Note**: This section is only required when the worker nodes provider `WORKER_NODE_PROVIDER` is set to `classic`. For other infrastructures, IBM Cloud Block Storage is already set up as the cluster's default storage class.

When using the `classic` worker nodes provider of IBM Cloud Kubernetes cluster, by default, it uses [IBM Cloud File Storage](https://www.ibm.com/cloud/file-storage) based on NFS as the default storage class. File Storage is designed to run RWX (read-write multiple nodes) workloads with proper security built around it. Therefore, File Storage [does not allow `fsGroup` securityContext](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/containers?topic=containers-security#container) which is needed for DEX and Kubeflow Jupyter Server.

[IBM Cloud Block Storage](https://www.ibm.com/cloud/block-storage) provides a fast way to store data and
satisfy many of the Kubeflow persistent volume requirements such as `fsGroup` out of the box and optimized RWO (read-write single node) which is used on all Kubeflow's persistent volume claim. 

Therefore, we strongly recommend to set up [IBM Cloud Block Storage](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/containers?topic=containers-block_storage#add_block) as the default storage class so that you can
get the best experience from Kubeflow.

1. [Follow the instructions](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/) to install the Helm version 3 client on your local machine.

2. Add the IBM Cloud Helm chart repository to the cluster where you want to use the IBM Cloud Block Storage plug-in.
    ```shell
    helm repo add iks-charts https://icr.io/helm/iks-charts
    helm repo update
    ```

3. Install the IBM Cloud Block Storage plug-in. When you install the plug-in, pre-defined block storage classes are added to your cluster.
    ```shell
    helm install 1.6.0 iks-charts/ibmcloud-block-storage-plugin -n kube-system
    ```
    
    Example output:
    ```
    NAME: 1.6.0
    LAST DEPLOYED: Thu Feb 27 11:41:35 2020
    NAMESPACE: kube-system
    STATUS: deployed
    REVISION: 1
    NOTES:
    Thank you for installing: ibmcloud-block-storage-plugin.   Your release is named: 1.6.0
    ...
    ```

4. Verify that the installation was successful.
    ```shell
    kubectl get pod -n kube-system | grep block
    ```
    
5. Verify that the storage classes for Block Storage were added to your cluster.
    ```
    kubectl get storageclasses | grep block
    ```

6. Set the Block Storage as the default storageclass.
    ```shell
    kubectl patch storageclass ibmc-block-gold -p '{"metadata": {"annotations":{"storageclass.kubernetes.io/is-default-class":"true"}}}'

    # Check the default storageclass is block storage
    kubectl get storageclass | grep \(default\)
    ```

    Example output:
    ```
    ibmc-block-gold (default)   ibm.io/ibmc-block   65s
    ```

    Make sure `ibmc-block-gold` is the only `default` storageclass. If there are two or more rows in the above output, there is other `default` storageclass. Unset it with the below command, for example, will make the `ibmc-file-bronze` storage no longer the `default` storageclass for the cluster.

    ```shell
    kubectl patch storageclass ibmc-file-bronze -p '{"metadata": {"annotations":{"storageclass.kubernetes.io/is-default-class":"false"}}}'
    ```

## Understanding the Kubeflow deployment process

The deployment process is controlled by the following commands:

* **build** - (Optional) Creates configuration files defining the various
  resources in your deployment. You only need to run `kfctl build` if you want
  to edit the resources before running `kfctl apply`.
* **apply** - Creates or updates the resources.
* **delete** - Deletes the resources.

### App layout

Your Kubeflow application directory **${KF_DIR}** contains the following files and 
directories:

* **${CONFIG_FILE}** is a YAML file that defines configurations related to your 
  Kubeflow deployment.

  * This file is a copy of the GitHub-based configuration YAML file that
    you used when deploying Kubeflow. For example, {{% config-uri-k8s-istio %}}.
  * When you run `kfctl apply` or `kfctl build`, kfctl creates
    a local version of the configuration file, `${CONFIG_FILE}`,
    which you can further customize if necessary.

* **kustomize** is a directory that contains the kustomize packages for Kubeflow applications.
    * The directory is created when you run `kfctl build` or `kfctl apply`.
    * You can customize the Kubernetes resources (modify the manifests and run `kfctl apply` again).


## Kubeflow installation
Run the following commands to set up and deploy Kubeflow.

1. Download the kfctl {{% kf-latest-version %}} release from the
  [Kubeflow releases 
  page](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfctl/releases/tag/{{% kf-latest-version %}}).

1. Unpack the tar ball
      ```
      tar -xvf kfctl_{{% kf-latest-version %}}_<platform>.tar.gz
      ```
1. Make kfctl binary easier to use (optional). If you don’t add the binary to your path, you must use the full path to the kfctl binary each time you run it.
      ```
      export PATH=$PATH:<path to where kfctl was unpacked>
      ```
    
Choose either **single user** or **multi-tenant** section based on your usage.

### Single user
Run the following commands to set up and deploy Kubeflow for a single user without any authentication.
```
# Set KF_NAME to the name of your Kubeflow deployment. This also becomes the
# name of the directory containing your configuration.
# For example, your deployment name can be 'my-kubeflow' or 'kf-test'.
export KF_NAME=<your choice of name for the Kubeflow deployment>

# Set the path to the base directory where you want to store one or more 
# Kubeflow deployments. For example, /opt/.
# Then set the Kubeflow application directory for this deployment.
export BASE_DIR=<path to a base directory>
export KF_DIR=${BASE_DIR}/${KF_NAME}

# Set the configuration file to use, such as the file specified below:
export CONFIG_URI="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubeflow/manifests/master/kfdef/kfctl_ibm.v1.1.0.yaml"

# Generate and deploy Kubeflow:
mkdir -p ${KF_DIR}
cd ${KF_DIR}
kfctl apply -V -f ${CONFIG_URI}
```

* **${KF_NAME}** - The name of your Kubeflow deployment.
  If you want a custom deployment name, specify that name here.
  For example,  `my-kubeflow` or `kf-test`.
  The value of KF_NAME must consist of lower case alphanumeric characters or
  '-', and must start and end with an alphanumeric character.
  The value of this variable cannot be greater than 25 characters. It must
  contain just a name, not a directory path.
  This value also becomes the name of the directory where your Kubeflow 
  configurations are stored, that is, the Kubeflow application directory. 

* **${KF_DIR}** - The full path to your Kubeflow application directory.

### Multi-user, auth-enabled
Run the following commands to deploy Kubeflow with GitHub OAuth application as authentication provider by dex. To support multi-users with authentication enabled, this guide uses [dex](https://github.com/dexidp/dex) with [GitHub OAuth](https://developer.github.com/apps/building-oauth-apps/). Before continue, refer to the guide [Creating an OAuth App](https://developer.github.com/apps/building-oauth-apps/creating-an-oauth-app/) for steps to create an OAuth app on GitHub.com.

The scenario is a GitHub organization owner can authorize its organization members to access a deployed kubeflow. A member of this GitHub organization will be redirected to a page to grant access to the GitHub profile by Kubeflow.

1. Create a new OAuth app in GitHub. Use following setting to register the application:
    * Homepage URL: `http://localhost:8080/`
    * Authorization callback URL: `http://localhost:8080/dex/callback`
1. Once the application is registered, copy and save the `Client ID` and `Client Secret` for use later.
1. Setup environment variables:
    ```
    export KF_NAME=<your choice of name for the Kubeflow deployment>

    # Set the path to the base directory where you want to store one or more 
    # Kubeflow deployments. For example, /opt/.
    export BASE_DIR=<path to a base directory>

    # Then set the Kubeflow application directory for this deployment.
    export KF_DIR=${BASE_DIR}/${KF_NAME}
    ```
1. Setup configuration files:
    ```
    export CONFIG_URI="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubeflow/manifests/master/kfdef/kfctl_ibm_dex_multi_user.v1.1.0.yaml"
    # Generate and deploy Kubeflow:
    mkdir -p ${KF_DIR}
    cd ${KF_DIR}
    kfctl build -V -f ${CONFIG_URI}
    ```
1. Deploy Kubeflow:
    ```
    kfctl apply -V -f ${CONFIG_URI}
    ```
1. Wait until the deployment finishes successfully. e.g., all pods are in `Running` state when running `kubectl get pod -n kubeflow`.
1. Update the configmap `dex` in namespace `auth` with credentials from the first step.
    - Get current resource file of current configmap `dex`:
    `kubectl get configmap dex -n auth -o yaml > dex-cm.yaml`
    The `dex-cm.yaml` file looks like following:
    ```YAML
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: ConfigMap
    metadata:
      name: dex
      namespace: auth
    data:
      config.yaml: |-
        issuer: http://dex.auth.svc.cluster.local:5556/dex
        storage:
          type: kubernetes
          config:
            inCluster: true
        web:
          http: 0.0.0.0:5556
        logger:
          level: "debug"
          format: text
        connectors:
          - type: github
            # Required field for connector id.
            id: github
            # Required field for connector name.
            name: GitHub
            config:
              # Fill in client ID, client Secret as string literal.
              clientID:
              clientSecret: 
              redirectURI: http://dex.auth.svc.cluster.local:5556/dex/callback
              # Optional organizations and teams, communicated through the "groups" scope.
              #
              # NOTE: This is an EXPERIMENTAL config option and will likely change.
              #
              orgs:
              # Fill in your GitHub organization name
              - name:
              # Required ONLY for GitHub Enterprise. Leave it empty when using github.com.
              # This is the Hostname of the GitHub Enterprise account listed on the
              # management console. Ensure this domain is routable on your network.
              hostName:
              # Flag which indicates that all user groups and teams should be loaded.
              loadAllGroups: false
              # flag which will switch from using the internal GitHub id to the users handle (@mention) as the user id.
              # It is possible for a user to change their own user name but it is very rare for them to do so
              useLoginAsID: false
        staticClients:
        - id: kubeflow-oidc-authservice
          redirectURIs: ["/login/oidc"]
          name: 'Dex Login Application'
          secret: pUCnCOY80SnXgjibTYM0ZWNzY3xreNGQok
    ```
    - Replace `clientID` and `clientSecret` in the `config.yaml` field with the `Client ID` and `Client Secret` created above for the GitHub OAuth application. Add your organization name to the `orgs` field, e.g.
    ```YAML
    orgs:
    - name: kubeflow-test
    ```
    Save the `dex-cm.yaml` file.
    - Update this change to the Kubernetes cluster:
    ```
    kubectl apply -f dex-cm.yaml -n auth

    # Remove this file with sensitive information.
    rm dex-cm.yaml
    ```
    
1. Apply configuration changes:
    ```
    kubectl rollout restart deploy/dex -n auth
    ```

## Verify installation

1. Check the resources deployed correctly in namespace `kubeflow`

     ```
     kubectl get all -n kubeflow
     ```

1. Open Kubeflow Dashboard. The default installation does not create an external endpoint but you can use port-forwarding to visit your cluster. Run the following command and visit http://localhost:8080.

     ```
     kubectl port-forward svc/istio-ingressgateway -n istio-system 8080:80
     ```

In case you want to expose the Kubeflow Dashboard over an external IP, you can change the type of the ingress gateway. To do that, you can edit the service:

     kubectl edit -n istio-system svc/istio-ingressgateway

From that file, replace `type: NodePort` with `type: LoadBalancer` and save.

While the change is being applied, you can watch the service until below command prints a value under the `EXTERNAL-IP` column:

     kubectl get -w -n istio-system svc/istio-ingressgateway

The external IP should be accessible by visiting http://<EXTERNAL-IP>. Note that above installation instructions do not create any protection for the external endpoint so it will be accessible to anyone without any authentication. 

## Additional information

You can find general information about Kubeflow configuration in the guide to [configuring Kubeflow with kfctl and kustomize](/docs/other-guides/kustomize/).

Commit message:

Update oidc auth secret to match the 1.1 release in the IBM multi user doc (#2074)

content/en/docs/ibm/deploy/install-kubeflow.md, after:

+++
title = "Install Kubeflow"
description = "Instructions for deploying Kubeflow with the shell"
weight = 5
+++

This guide describes how to use the kfctl binary to deploy Kubeflow on IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service (IKS).

## Prerequisites

* Authenticating with IBM Cloud

  ```shell
  ibmcloud login
  ```

* Accessing the IBM Cloud cluster

  If you do not have access to a cluster created with IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service, follow the [Create an IBM Cloud cluster](/docs/ibm/create-cluster) guide to create a cluster.

  Run following command to switch the Kubernetes context and access the cluster.

  ```shell
  ibmcloud ks cluster config --cluster <cluster_name>
  ```

  Replace `<cluster_name>` with your cluster name.

## IBM Cloud Block Storage Setup

**Note**: This section is only required when the worker nodes provider `WORKER_NODE_PROVIDER` is set to `classic`. For other infrastructures, IBM Cloud Block Storage is already set up as the cluster's default storage class.

When using the `classic` worker nodes provider of IBM Cloud Kubernetes cluster, by default, it uses [IBM Cloud File Storage](https://www.ibm.com/cloud/file-storage) based on NFS as the default storage class. File Storage is designed to run RWX (read-write multiple nodes) workloads with proper security built around it. Therefore, File Storage [does not allow `fsGroup` securityContext](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/containers?topic=containers-security#container) which is needed for DEX and Kubeflow Jupyter Server.

[IBM Cloud Block Storage](https://www.ibm.com/cloud/block-storage) provides a fast way to store data and
satisfy many of the Kubeflow persistent volume requirements such as `fsGroup` out of the box and optimized RWO (read-write single node) which is used on all Kubeflow's persistent volume claim. 

Therefore, we strongly recommend to set up [IBM Cloud Block Storage](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/containers?topic=containers-block_storage#add_block) as the default storage class so that you can
get the best experience from Kubeflow.

1. [Follow the instructions](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/) to install the Helm version 3 client on your local machine.

2. Add the IBM Cloud Helm chart repository to the cluster where you want to use the IBM Cloud Block Storage plug-in.
    ```shell
    helm repo add iks-charts https://icr.io/helm/iks-charts
    helm repo update
    ```

3. Install the IBM Cloud Block Storage plug-in. When you install the plug-in, pre-defined block storage classes are added to your cluster.
    ```shell
    helm install 1.6.0 iks-charts/ibmcloud-block-storage-plugin -n kube-system
    ```
    
    Example output:
    ```
    NAME: 1.6.0
    LAST DEPLOYED: Thu Feb 27 11:41:35 2020
    NAMESPACE: kube-system
    STATUS: deployed
    REVISION: 1
    NOTES:
    Thank you for installing: ibmcloud-block-storage-plugin.   Your release is named: 1.6.0
    ...
    ```

4. Verify that the installation was successful.
    ```shell
    kubectl get pod -n kube-system | grep block
    ```
    
5. Verify that the storage classes for Block Storage were added to your cluster.
    ```
    kubectl get storageclasses | grep block
    ```

6. Set the Block Storage as the default storageclass.
    ```shell
    kubectl patch storageclass ibmc-block-gold -p '{"metadata": {"annotations":{"storageclass.kubernetes.io/is-default-class":"true"}}}'

    # Check the default storageclass is block storage
    kubectl get storageclass | grep \(default\)
    ```

    Example output:
    ```
    ibmc-block-gold (default)   ibm.io/ibmc-block   65s
    ```

    Make sure `ibmc-block-gold` is the only `default` storageclass. If there are two or more rows in the above output, there is other `default` storageclass. Unset it with the below command, for example, will make the `ibmc-file-bronze` storage no longer the `default` storageclass for the cluster.

    ```shell
    kubectl patch storageclass ibmc-file-bronze -p '{"metadata": {"annotations":{"storageclass.kubernetes.io/is-default-class":"false"}}}'
    ```

## Understanding the Kubeflow deployment process

The deployment process is controlled by the following commands:

* **build** - (Optional) Creates configuration files defining the various
  resources in your deployment. You only need to run `kfctl build` if you want
  to edit the resources before running `kfctl apply`.
* **apply** - Creates or updates the resources.
* **delete** - Deletes the resources.

### App layout

Your Kubeflow application directory **${KF_DIR}** contains the following files and 
directories:

* **${CONFIG_FILE}** is a YAML file that defines configurations related to your 
  Kubeflow deployment.

  * This file is a copy of the GitHub-based configuration YAML file that
    you used when deploying Kubeflow. For example, {{% config-uri-k8s-istio %}}.
  * When you run `kfctl apply` or `kfctl build`, kfctl creates
    a local version of the configuration file, `${CONFIG_FILE}`,
    which you can further customize if necessary.

* **kustomize** is a directory that contains the kustomize packages for Kubeflow applications.
    * The directory is created when you run `kfctl build` or `kfctl apply`.
    * You can customize the Kubernetes resources (modify the manifests and run `kfctl apply` again).


## Kubeflow installation
Run the following commands to set up and deploy Kubeflow.

1. Download the kfctl {{% kf-latest-version %}} release from the
  [Kubeflow releases 
  page](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfctl/releases/tag/{{% kf-latest-version %}}).

1. Unpack the tar ball
      ```
      tar -xvf kfctl_{{% kf-latest-version %}}_<platform>.tar.gz
      ```
1. Make kfctl binary easier to use (optional). If you don’t add the binary to your path, you must use the full path to the kfctl binary each time you run it.
      ```
      export PATH=$PATH:<path to where kfctl was unpacked>
      ```
    
Choose either **single user** or **multi-tenant** section based on your usage.

### Single user
Run the following commands to set up and deploy Kubeflow for a single user without any authentication.
```
# Set KF_NAME to the name of your Kubeflow deployment. This also becomes the
# name of the directory containing your configuration.
# For example, your deployment name can be 'my-kubeflow' or 'kf-test'.
export KF_NAME=<your choice of name for the Kubeflow deployment>

# Set the path to the base directory where you want to store one or more 
# Kubeflow deployments. For example, /opt/.
# Then set the Kubeflow application directory for this deployment.
export BASE_DIR=<path to a base directory>
export KF_DIR=${BASE_DIR}/${KF_NAME}

# Set the configuration file to use, such as the file specified below:
export CONFIG_URI="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubeflow/manifests/master/kfdef/kfctl_ibm.v1.1.0.yaml"

# Generate and deploy Kubeflow:
mkdir -p ${KF_DIR}
cd ${KF_DIR}
kfctl apply -V -f ${CONFIG_URI}
```

* **${KF_NAME}** - The name of your Kubeflow deployment.
  If you want a custom deployment name, specify that name here.
  For example,  `my-kubeflow` or `kf-test`.
  The value of KF_NAME must consist of lower case alphanumeric characters or
  '-', and must start and end with an alphanumeric character.
  The value of this variable cannot be greater than 25 characters. It must
  contain just a name, not a directory path.
  This value also becomes the name of the directory where your Kubeflow 
  configurations are stored, that is, the Kubeflow application directory. 

* **${KF_DIR}** - The full path to your Kubeflow application directory.

### Multi-user, auth-enabled
Run the following commands to deploy Kubeflow with GitHub OAuth application as authentication provider by dex. To support multi-users with authentication enabled, this guide uses [dex](https://github.com/dexidp/dex) with [GitHub OAuth](https://developer.github.com/apps/building-oauth-apps/). Before continue, refer to the guide [Creating an OAuth App](https://developer.github.com/apps/building-oauth-apps/creating-an-oauth-app/) for steps to create an OAuth app on GitHub.com.

The scenario is a GitHub organization owner can authorize its organization members to access a deployed kubeflow. A member of this GitHub organization will be redirected to a page to grant access to the GitHub profile by Kubeflow.

1. Create a new OAuth app in GitHub. Use following setting to register the application:
    * Homepage URL: `http://localhost:8080/`
    * Authorization callback URL: `http://localhost:8080/dex/callback`
1. Once the application is registered, copy and save the `Client ID` and `Client Secret` for use later.
1. Setup environment variables:
    ```
    export KF_NAME=<your choice of name for the Kubeflow deployment>

    # Set the path to the base directory where you want to store one or more 
    # Kubeflow deployments. For example, /opt/.
    export BASE_DIR=<path to a base directory>

    # Then set the Kubeflow application directory for this deployment.
    export KF_DIR=${BASE_DIR}/${KF_NAME}
    ```
1. Setup configuration files:
    ```
    export CONFIG_URI="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubeflow/manifests/master/kfdef/kfctl_ibm_dex_multi_user.v1.1.0.yaml"
    # Generate and deploy Kubeflow:
    mkdir -p ${KF_DIR}
    cd ${KF_DIR}
    kfctl build -V -f ${CONFIG_URI}
    ```
1. Deploy Kubeflow:
    ```
    kfctl apply -V -f ${CONFIG_URI}
    ```
1. Wait until the deployment finishes successfully. e.g., all pods are in `Running` state when running `kubectl get pod -n kubeflow`.
1. Update the configmap `dex` in namespace `auth` with credentials from the first step.
    - Get current resource file of current configmap `dex`:
    `kubectl get configmap dex -n auth -o yaml > dex-cm.yaml`
    The `dex-cm.yaml` file looks like following:
    ```YAML
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: ConfigMap
    metadata:
      name: dex
      namespace: auth
    data:
      config.yaml: |-
        issuer: http://dex.auth.svc.cluster.local:5556/dex
        storage:
          type: kubernetes
          config:
            inCluster: true
        web:
          http: 0.0.0.0:5556
        logger:
          level: "debug"
          format: text
        connectors:
          - type: github
            # Required field for connector id.
            id: github
            # Required field for connector name.
            name: GitHub
            config:
              # Fill in client ID, client Secret as string literal.
              clientID:
              clientSecret: 
              redirectURI: http://dex.auth.svc.cluster.local:5556/dex/callback
              # Optional organizations and teams, communicated through the "groups" scope.
              #
              # NOTE: This is an EXPERIMENTAL config option and will likely change.
              #
              orgs:
              # Fill in your GitHub organization name
              - name:
              # Required ONLY for GitHub Enterprise. Leave it empty when using github.com.
              # This is the Hostname of the GitHub Enterprise account listed on the
              # management console. Ensure this domain is routable on your network.
              hostName:
              # Flag which indicates that all user groups and teams should be loaded.
              loadAllGroups: false
              # flag which will switch from using the internal GitHub id to the users handle (@mention) as the user id.
              # It is possible for a user to change their own user name but it is very rare for them to do so
              useLoginAsID: false
        staticClients:
        - id: kubeflow-oidc-authservice
          redirectURIs: ["/login/oidc"]
          name: 'Dex Login Application'
          # Update the secret below to match with the oidc authservice.
          secret: pUBnBOY80SnXgjibTYM9ZWNzY2xreNGQok
    ```
    - Replace `clientID` and `clientSecret` in the `config.yaml` field with the `Client ID` and `Client Secret` created above for the GitHub OAuth application. Add your organization name to the `orgs` field, e.g.
    ```YAML
    orgs:
    - name: kubeflow-test
    ```
    Save the `dex-cm.yaml` file.
    - Update this change to the Kubernetes cluster:
    ```
    kubectl apply -f dex-cm.yaml -n auth

    # Remove this file with sensitive information.
    rm dex-cm.yaml
    ```
    
1. Apply configuration changes:
    ```
    kubectl rollout restart deploy/dex -n auth
    ```

## Verify installation

1. Check the resources deployed correctly in namespace `kubeflow`

     ```
     kubectl get all -n kubeflow
     ```

1. Open Kubeflow Dashboard. The default installation does not create an external endpoint but you can use port-forwarding to visit your cluster. Run the following command and visit http://localhost:8080.

     ```
     kubectl port-forward svc/istio-ingressgateway -n istio-system 8080:80
     ```

In case you want to expose the Kubeflow Dashboard over an external IP, you can change the type of the ingress gateway. To do that, you can edit the service:

     kubectl edit -n istio-system svc/istio-ingressgateway

From that file, replace `type: NodePort` with `type: LoadBalancer` and save.

While the change is being applied, you can watch the service until below command prints a value under the `EXTERNAL-IP` column:

     kubectl get -w -n istio-system svc/istio-ingressgateway

The external IP should be accessible by visiting http://<EXTERNAL-IP>. Note that above installation instructions do not create any protection for the external endpoint so it will be accessible to anyone without any authentication. 

## Additional information

You can find general information about Kubeflow configuration in the guide to [configuring Kubeflow with kfctl and kustomize](/docs/other-guides/kustomize/).
