content/en/docs/started/k8s/overview.md, before:

+++
title = "Overview of Deployment on Existing Clusters"
description = "Instructions for installing Kubeflow on your existing Kubernetes cluster with list of supported options"
weight = 1
+++

Follow these instructions if you want to install Kubeflow on an existing Kubernetes
cluster. Some [clouds](/docs/started/cloud) and Kubernetes distributions provide
Kubeflow specific instructions for getting the most out of their Kubernetes. If your
existing Kubernetes cluster is from one of those, consider following those instructions.

## Minimum system requirements

The Kubernetes cluster must meet the following minimum requirements:

- Your cluster must include at least one worker node with a minimum of:
  - 4 CPU
  - 50 GB storage
  - 12 GB memory

* The recommended Kubernetes version is {{% kubernetes-tested-version %}}.
  Kubeflow has been validated and tested on Kubernetes
  {{% kubernetes-tested-version %}}.
  - Your cluster must run at least Kubernetes version
    {{% kubernetes-min-version %}}.
  - Kubeflow **does not work** on Kubernetes
    {{% kubernetes-incompatible-versions %}}.
  - Older versions of Kubernetes may not be compatible with the latest Kubeflow versions. The following matrix
    provides information about compatibility between Kubeflow and Kubernetes versions.

<div class="table-responsive">
  <table class="table table-bordered">
    <thead class="thead-light">
      <tr>
        <th>Kubernetes Versions</th>
        <th>Kubeflow 0.4</th>
        <th>Kubeflow 0.5</th>
        <th>Kubeflow 0.6</th>
        <th>Kubeflow 0.7</th>
        <th>Kubeflow 1.0</th>
      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td>1.11</td>
        <td><b>compatible</b></td>
        <td><b>compatible</b></td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>1.12</td>
        <td><b>compatible</b></td>
        <td><b>compatible</b></td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>1.13</td>
        <td><b>compatible</b></td>
        <td><b>compatible</b></td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>1.14</td>
        <td><b>compatible</b></td>
        <td><b>compatible</b></td>
        <td><b>compatible</b></td>
        <td><b>compatible</b></td>
        <td><b>compatible</b></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>1.15</td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
        <td><b>compatible</b></td>
        <td><b>compatible</b></td>
        <td><b>compatible</b></td>
        <td><b>compatible</b></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>1.16</td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
        <td><b>no known issues</b></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>1.17</td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
        <td><b>no known issues</b></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>1.18</td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
        <td><b>no known issues</b></td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>

- **incompatible**: the combination does not work at all
- **compatible**: all Kubeflow features have been tested and verified for the
  Kubernetes version
- **no known issues**: the combination has not been fully tested but there are
  no repoted issues

## Kubeflow Deployment Configurations

The following table lists the options for installing Kubeflow on an existing Kubernetes
cluster and links to detailed instructions. These solutions are vendor neutral and are
governed by consensus within the Kubeflow community.

<div class="table-responsive">
  <table class="table table-bordered">
    <thead class="thead-light">
      <tr>
        <th>Deployment config</th>
        <th>Description</th>
      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td>kfctl_k8s_istio.yaml</td>
        <td> This config creates a vanilla deployment of Kubeflow with all its core components without any external dependencies. The deployment can be customized based on your environment needs. <br />Follow instructions: <a href="/docs/started/k8s/kfctl-k8s-istio/">Kubeflow Deployment with kfctl_k8s_istio</a></td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td>kfctl_istio_dex.yaml</td>
        <td> This config creates a Kubeflow deployment with all its core components, and uses Dex and Istio for vendor-neutral authentication. <br />Follow instructions: <a href="/docs/started/k8s/kfctl-istio-dex/">Multi-user, auth-enabled Kubeflow with kfctl_istio_dex</a></td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>

Commit message:

Added outdated banner to non-index docs unchanged in last 30d (#2072)
This was originally PR #2066. @RFMVasconcelos is out this week and
the PR is blocked by a merge conflict so I rebased it in order
to get it merged.

Related to: #1984

Author:    jlewi <jeremy@lewi.us>

content/en/docs/started/k8s/overview.md, after:

+++
title = "Overview of Deployment on Existing Clusters"
description = "Instructions for installing Kubeflow on your existing Kubernetes cluster with list of supported options"
weight = 1
                    
+++
{{% alert title="Out of date" color="warning" %}}
This guide contains outdated information pertaining to Kubeflow 1.0. This guide
needs to be updated for Kubeflow 1.1.
{{% /alert %}}

Follow these instructions if you want to install Kubeflow on an existing Kubernetes
cluster. Some [clouds](/docs/started/cloud) and Kubernetes distributions provide
Kubeflow specific instructions for getting the most out of their Kubernetes. If your
existing Kubernetes cluster is from one of those, consider following those instructions.

## Minimum system requirements

The Kubernetes cluster must meet the following minimum requirements:

- Your cluster must include at least one worker node with a minimum of:
  - 4 CPU
  - 50 GB storage
  - 12 GB memory

* The recommended Kubernetes version is {{% kubernetes-tested-version %}}.
  Kubeflow has been validated and tested on Kubernetes
  {{% kubernetes-tested-version %}}.
  - Your cluster must run at least Kubernetes version
    {{% kubernetes-min-version %}}.
  - Kubeflow **does not work** on Kubernetes
    {{% kubernetes-incompatible-versions %}}.
  - Older versions of Kubernetes may not be compatible with the latest Kubeflow versions. The following matrix
    provides information about compatibility between Kubeflow and Kubernetes versions.

<div class="table-responsive">
  <table class="table table-bordered">
    <thead class="thead-light">
      <tr>
        <th>Kubernetes Versions</th>
        <th>Kubeflow 0.4</th>
        <th>Kubeflow 0.5</th>
        <th>Kubeflow 0.6</th>
        <th>Kubeflow 0.7</th>
        <th>Kubeflow 1.0</th>
      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td>1.11</td>
        <td><b>compatible</b></td>
        <td><b>compatible</b></td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>1.12</td>
        <td><b>compatible</b></td>
        <td><b>compatible</b></td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>1.13</td>
        <td><b>compatible</b></td>
        <td><b>compatible</b></td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>1.14</td>
        <td><b>compatible</b></td>
        <td><b>compatible</b></td>
        <td><b>compatible</b></td>
        <td><b>compatible</b></td>
        <td><b>compatible</b></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>1.15</td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
        <td><b>compatible</b></td>
        <td><b>compatible</b></td>
        <td><b>compatible</b></td>
        <td><b>compatible</b></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>1.16</td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
        <td><b>no known issues</b></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>1.17</td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
        <td><b>no known issues</b></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>1.18</td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
        <td>incompatible</td>
        <td><b>no known issues</b></td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>

- **incompatible**: the combination does not work at all
- **compatible**: all Kubeflow features have been tested and verified for the
  Kubernetes version
- **no known issues**: the combination has not been fully tested but there are
  no repoted issues

## Kubeflow Deployment Configurations

The following table lists the options for installing Kubeflow on an existing Kubernetes
cluster and links to detailed instructions. These solutions are vendor neutral and are
governed by consensus within the Kubeflow community.

<div class="table-responsive">
  <table class="table table-bordered">
    <thead class="thead-light">
      <tr>
        <th>Deployment config</th>
        <th>Description</th>
      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td>kfctl_k8s_istio.yaml</td>
        <td> This config creates a vanilla deployment of Kubeflow with all its core components without any external dependencies. The deployment can be customized based on your environment needs. <br />Follow instructions: <a href="/docs/started/k8s/kfctl-k8s-istio/">Kubeflow Deployment with kfctl_k8s_istio</a></td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td>kfctl_istio_dex.yaml</td>
        <td> This config creates a Kubeflow deployment with all its core components, and uses Dex and Istio for vendor-neutral authentication. <br />Follow instructions: <a href="/docs/started/k8s/kfctl-istio-dex/">Multi-user, auth-enabled Kubeflow with kfctl_istio_dex</a></td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>
