content/docs/other-guides/troubleshooting.md, before:

+++
title = "Troubleshooting"
description = "Finding and fixing problems in your Kubeflow deployment"
weight = 100
+++

This page presents some hints for troubleshooting specific problems that you
may encounter.

## TensorFlow and AVX
There are some instances where you may encounter a TensorFlow-related Python installation or a pod launch issue that results in a SIGILL (illegal instruction core dump). Kubeflow uses the pre-built binaries from the TensorFlow project which, beginning with version 1.6, are compiled to make use of the [AVX](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Vector_Extensions) CPU instruction. This is a recent feature and your CPU might not support it. Check the host environment for your node to determine whether it has this support.

Linux:
```
grep -ci avx /proc/cpuinfo
```

### AVX2
Some components requirement AVX2 for better performance, e.g. TF Serving.
To ensure the nodes support AVX2, we added
[minCpuPlatform](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/instances/specify-min-cpu-platform)
arg in our deployment
[config](https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/blob/master/scripts/gke/deployment_manager_configs/cluster.jinja#L105).

On GCP this will fail in regions (e.g. us-central1-a) that do not explicitly have Intel
Haswell (even when there are other newer platforms in the region).
In that case, please choose another region, or change the config to other
[platform](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Intel_CPU_microarchitectures)
newer than Haswell.


## RBAC clusters

If you are running on a Kubernetes cluster with [RBAC enabled](https://kubernetes.io/docs/admin/authorization/rbac/#command-line-utilities), you may get an error like the following when deploying Kubeflow:

```
ERROR Error updating roles kubeflow-test-infra.jupyter-role: roles.rbac.authorization.k8s.io "jupyter-role" is forbidden: attempt to grant extra privileges: [PolicyRule{Resources:["*"], APIGroups:["*"], Verbs:["*"]}] user=&{your-user@acme.com  [system:authenticated] map[]} ownerrules=[PolicyRule{Resources:["selfsubjectaccessreviews"], APIGroups:["authorization.k8s.io"], Verbs:["create"]} PolicyRule{NonResourceURLs:["/api" "/api/*" "/apis" "/apis/*" "/healthz" "/swagger-2.0.0.pb-v1" "/swagger.json" "/swaggerapi" "/swaggerapi/*" "/version"], Verbs:["get"]}] ruleResolutionErrors=[]
```

This error indicates you do not have sufficient permissions. In many cases you can resolve this just by creating an appropriate
clusterrole binding like so and then redeploying kubeflow:

```commandline
kubectl create clusterrolebinding default-admin --clusterrole=cluster-admin --user=your-user@acme.com
```

  * Replace `your-user@acme.com` with the user listed in the error message.

If you're using GKE, you may want to refer to [GKE's RBAC docs](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/role-based-access-control) to understand
how RBAC interacts with IAM on GCP.

## Problems spawning Jupyter pods

This section has been moved to [Jupyter Notebooks Troubleshooting Guide] (/docs/notebooks/troubleshoot/).


## Pods stuck in Pending state

There are three pods that have Persistent Volume Claims (PVCs) that will get stuck in pending state if they are unable to bind their PVC. The three pods are minio, mysql, and katib-mysql.
Check the status of the PVC requests:

```
kubectl -n ${NAMESPACE} get pvc
```

  * Look for the status of "Bound"
  * PVC requests in "Pending" state indicate that the scheduler was unable to bind the required PVC. 

If you have not configured [dynamic provisioning] (https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/dynamic-provisioning/) for your cluster, including a default storage class, then you must create a [persistent volume] (https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/) for each of the PVCs.

You can use the example below to create local persistent volumes:

```commandline
sudo mkdir /mnt/pv{1..3}

kubectl create -f - <<EOF
kind: PersistentVolume
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: pv-volume1
spec:
  storageClassName:
  capacity:
    storage: 10Gi
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
  hostPath:
    path: "/mnt/pv1"
---
kind: PersistentVolume
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: pv-volume2
spec:
  storageClassName:
  capacity:
    storage: 20Gi
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
  hostPath:
    path: "/mnt/pv2"
---
kind: PersistentVolume
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: pv-volume3
spec:
  storageClassName:
  capacity:
    storage: 20Gi
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
  hostPath:
    path: "/mnt/pv3"
EOF
```
Once created the scheduler will successfully start the remaining three pods. The PVs may also be created prior to running any of the kfctl commands.

## OpenShift
If you are deploying Kubeflow in an [OpenShift](https://github.com/openshift/origin) environment which encapsulates Kubernetes, you will need to adjust the security contexts for the ambassador and Jupyter-hub deployments in order to get the pods to run:

```commandline
oc adm policy add-scc-to-user anyuid -z ambassador
oc adm policy add-scc-to-user anyuid -z jupyter-hub
```
Once the anyuid policy has been set, you must delete the failing pods and allow them to be recreated in the project deployment.

You will also need to adjust the privileges of the tf-job-operator service account for TFJobs to run. Do this in the project where you are running TFJobs:

```commandline
oc adm policy add-role-to-user cluster-admin -z tf-job-operator
```

## 403 API rate limit exceeded error

Because kubectl uses GitHub to pull kubeflow, unless user specifies GitHub API token, it will quickly consume maximum API call quota for anonymous.
To fix this issue first create GitHub API token using this [guide](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line/), and assign this token to GITHUB_TOKEN environment variable:

```commandline
export GITHUB_TOKEN=<< token >>
```

## Next steps

Visit the [Kubeflow support page](/docs/other-guides/support/) to find resources
and community forums where you can ask for help.

Commit message:

Added troubleshooting for unsigned binary on macOS.

content/docs/other-guides/troubleshooting.md, after:

+++
title = "Troubleshooting"
description = "Finding and fixing problems in your Kubeflow deployment"
weight = 100
+++

This page presents some hints for troubleshooting specific problems that you
may encounter.

## macOS: kfctl cannot be opened because the developer cannot be verified

The kfctl binary is currently not signed. That is, kfctl is not registered
with Apple. When you run kfctl from the command
line on the latest versions of macOS, you may see a message like this:

> **"kfctl" cannot be opened because the developer cannot be verified.** macOS
cannot verify that this app is free from malware.

To run kfctl, go to the kfctl binary file in *Finder*, right-click, then select
**Open**. Then click **Open** again to confirm that you want to open the app.

For more information, see the [macOS user 
guide](https://support.apple.com/en-au/guide/mac-help/mh40616/10.15/mac/10.15).

## TensorFlow and AVX
There are some instances where you may encounter a TensorFlow-related Python installation or a pod launch issue that results in a SIGILL (illegal instruction core dump). Kubeflow uses the pre-built binaries from the TensorFlow project which, beginning with version 1.6, are compiled to make use of the [AVX](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Vector_Extensions) CPU instruction. This is a recent feature and your CPU might not support it. Check the host environment for your node to determine whether it has this support.

Linux:
```
grep -ci avx /proc/cpuinfo
```

### AVX2
Some components requirement AVX2 for better performance, e.g. TF Serving.
To ensure the nodes support AVX2, we added
[minCpuPlatform](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/instances/specify-min-cpu-platform)
arg in our deployment
[config](https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/blob/master/scripts/gke/deployment_manager_configs/cluster.jinja#L105).

On GCP this will fail in regions (e.g. us-central1-a) that do not explicitly have Intel
Haswell (even when there are other newer platforms in the region).
In that case, please choose another region, or change the config to other
[platform](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Intel_CPU_microarchitectures)
newer than Haswell.


## RBAC clusters

If you are running on a Kubernetes cluster with [RBAC enabled](https://kubernetes.io/docs/admin/authorization/rbac/#command-line-utilities), you may get an error like the following when deploying Kubeflow:

```
ERROR Error updating roles kubeflow-test-infra.jupyter-role: roles.rbac.authorization.k8s.io "jupyter-role" is forbidden: attempt to grant extra privileges: [PolicyRule{Resources:["*"], APIGroups:["*"], Verbs:["*"]}] user=&{your-user@acme.com  [system:authenticated] map[]} ownerrules=[PolicyRule{Resources:["selfsubjectaccessreviews"], APIGroups:["authorization.k8s.io"], Verbs:["create"]} PolicyRule{NonResourceURLs:["/api" "/api/*" "/apis" "/apis/*" "/healthz" "/swagger-2.0.0.pb-v1" "/swagger.json" "/swaggerapi" "/swaggerapi/*" "/version"], Verbs:["get"]}] ruleResolutionErrors=[]
```

This error indicates you do not have sufficient permissions. In many cases you can resolve this just by creating an appropriate
clusterrole binding like so and then redeploying kubeflow:

```commandline
kubectl create clusterrolebinding default-admin --clusterrole=cluster-admin --user=your-user@acme.com
```

  * Replace `your-user@acme.com` with the user listed in the error message.

If you're using GKE, you may want to refer to [GKE's RBAC docs](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/role-based-access-control) to understand
how RBAC interacts with IAM on GCP.

## Problems spawning Jupyter pods

This section has been moved to [Jupyter Notebooks Troubleshooting Guide] (/docs/notebooks/troubleshoot/).


## Pods stuck in Pending state

There are three pods that have Persistent Volume Claims (PVCs) that will get stuck in pending state if they are unable to bind their PVC. The three pods are minio, mysql, and katib-mysql.
Check the status of the PVC requests:

```
kubectl -n ${NAMESPACE} get pvc
```

  * Look for the status of "Bound"
  * PVC requests in "Pending" state indicate that the scheduler was unable to bind the required PVC. 

If you have not configured [dynamic provisioning] (https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/dynamic-provisioning/) for your cluster, including a default storage class, then you must create a [persistent volume] (https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/) for each of the PVCs.

You can use the example below to create local persistent volumes:

```commandline
sudo mkdir /mnt/pv{1..3}

kubectl create -f - <<EOF
kind: PersistentVolume
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: pv-volume1
spec:
  storageClassName:
  capacity:
    storage: 10Gi
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
  hostPath:
    path: "/mnt/pv1"
---
kind: PersistentVolume
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: pv-volume2
spec:
  storageClassName:
  capacity:
    storage: 20Gi
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
  hostPath:
    path: "/mnt/pv2"
---
kind: PersistentVolume
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: pv-volume3
spec:
  storageClassName:
  capacity:
    storage: 20Gi
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
  hostPath:
    path: "/mnt/pv3"
EOF
```
Once created the scheduler will successfully start the remaining three pods. The PVs may also be created prior to running any of the kfctl commands.

## OpenShift
If you are deploying Kubeflow in an [OpenShift](https://github.com/openshift/origin) environment which encapsulates Kubernetes, you will need to adjust the security contexts for the ambassador and Jupyter-hub deployments in order to get the pods to run:

```commandline
oc adm policy add-scc-to-user anyuid -z ambassador
oc adm policy add-scc-to-user anyuid -z jupyter-hub
```
Once the anyuid policy has been set, you must delete the failing pods and allow them to be recreated in the project deployment.

You will also need to adjust the privileges of the tf-job-operator service account for TFJobs to run. Do this in the project where you are running TFJobs:

```commandline
oc adm policy add-role-to-user cluster-admin -z tf-job-operator
```

## 403 API rate limit exceeded error

Because kubectl uses GitHub to pull kubeflow, unless user specifies GitHub API token, it will quickly consume maximum API call quota for anonymous.
To fix this issue first create GitHub API token using this [guide](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line/), and assign this token to GITHUB_TOKEN environment variable:

```commandline
export GITHUB_TOKEN=<< token >>
```

## Next steps

Visit the [Kubeflow support page](/docs/other-guides/support/) to find resources
and community forums where you can ask for help.
