content/en/docs/components/serving/kfserving.md, before:

+++
title = "KFServing"
description = "Model serving using KFServing"
weight = 2
                    
+++
{{% alert title="Out of date" color="warning" %}}
This guide contains outdated information pertaining to Kubeflow 1.0. This guide
needs to be updated for Kubeflow 1.1.
{{% /alert %}}

{{% beta-status 
  feedbacklink="https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/issues" %}}

KFServing enables serverless inferencing on Kubernetes and provides performant, high abstraction interfaces for common machine learning (ML) frameworks like TensorFlow, XGBoost, scikit-learn, PyTorch, and ONNX to solve production model serving use cases.

You can use KFServing to do the following:

* Provide a Kubernetes [Custom Resource Definition](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/) for serving ML models on arbitrary frameworks.

* Encapsulate the complexity of autoscaling, networking, health checking, and server configuration to bring cutting edge serving features like GPU autoscaling, scale to zero, and canary rollouts to your ML deployments.

* Enable a simple, pluggable, and complete story for your production ML inference server by providing prediction, pre-processing, post-processing and explainability out of the box.

Our strong community contributions help KFServing to grow. We have a Technical Steering Committee driven by Google, IBM, Microsoft, Seldon, and Bloomberg. [Browse the KFServing GitHub repo](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving) to give us feedback!

## Install with Kubeflow
KFServing works with Kubeflow 1.1. Kustomize installation files are [located in the manifests repo](https://github.com/kubeflow/manifests/tree/master/kfserving).
See examples running KFServing on [Istio/Dex](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/istio-dex) and [GCP](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/gcp-iap)

<img src="../kfserving.png" alt="KFServing">

## Examples

### Deploy models with out-of-the-box model servers
* [TensorFlow](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/tensorflow)
* [PyTorch](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/pytorch)
* [XGBoost](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/xgboost)
* [Scikit-Learn](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/sklearn)
* [ONNXRuntime](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/onnx)

### Deploy models with custom model servers
* [Custom](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/custom)
* [BentoML](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/bentoml)

### Deploy models on GPU
* [GPU](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/accelerators)
* [Nvidia Triton Inference Server](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/triton)

### Autoscaling and Rollouts
* [Autoscaling](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/autoscaling)
* [Canary Rollout](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/rollouts)

### Model explainability and outlier detection
* [Explainability](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/explanation/alibi)
* [OutlierDetection](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/outlier-detection/alibi-detect/cifar10)

### Integrations
* [Transformer](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/transformer/image_transformer)
* [Kafka](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/kafka)
* [Pipelines](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/pipelines)
* [Request/Response logging](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/logger)

### Model Storages
* [Azure](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/azure)
* [S3](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/s3)
* [On-prem cluster](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/pvc)

### Sample notebooks
* [SDK client](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/blob/master/docs/samples/client/kfserving_sdk_sample.ipynb)
* [Transformer (pre/post processing)](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/blob/master/docs/samples/transformer/image_transformer/kfserving_sdk_transformer.ipynb)
* [ONNX](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/blob/master/docs/samples/onnx/mosaic-onnx.ipynb)

We frequently add examples to our [GitHub repo](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/).

## Learn more
* Join our [working group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kfserving) for meeting invitations and discussion.
* [Read the docs](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs).
* [API docs](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/apis/README.md).
* [Debugging guide](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/blob/master/docs/KFSERVING_DEBUG_GUIDE.md)
* [Roadmap](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/ROADMAP.md).
* [KFServing 101 slides](https://drive.google.com/file/d/16oqz6dhY5BR0u74pi9mDThU97Np__AFb/view).
* [Kubecon Introducing KFServing](https://kccncna19.sched.com/event/UaZo/introducing-kfserving-serverless-model-serving-on-kubernetes-ellis-bigelow-google-dan-sun-bloomberg)
* [Kubecon Advanced KFServing](https://kccncna19.sched.com/event/UaVw/advanced-model-inferencing-leveraging-knative-istio-and-kubeflow-serving-animesh-singh-ibm-clive-cox-seldon)
* [Nvidia GTC Accelerate and Autoscale Deep Learning Inference on GPUs](https://developer.nvidia.com/gtc/2020/video/s22459-vid)

## Standalone KFServing
### Install Knative/Istio
Knative Serving (v0.11.2 +) and Istio (v1.1.7+), Cert Manager(v0.12.0+) should be available on your Kubernetes cluster.
Please see more details for installing the prerequisites [here](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving#prerequisites)

### KFServing installation
Once you meet the above prerequsites KFServing can be [installed standalone](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving#standalone-kfserving-installation). See [here](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/install) for other available releases.

### Monitoring
* [Install Metrics, Logging and Tracing](https://knative.dev/docs/serving/installing-logging-metrics-traces/)
* [Accessing metrics](https://knative.dev/docs/serving/accessing-metrics/)
* [Accessing logs](https://knative.dev/docs/serving/accessing-logs/)
* [Accessing traces](https://knative.dev/docs/serving/accessing-traces/)
* [Debugging performance issue](https://knative.dev/docs/serving/debugging-performance-issues/)

## Use SDK
1. Install the SDK.
    ```
    pip install kfserving
    ```
1. [Follow the example](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/blob/master/docs/samples/client/kfserving_sdk_sample.ipynb) to use the KFServing SDK to create, patch, roll out, and delete a KFServing instance.

## Contribute
* [Developer guide](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/DEVELOPER_GUIDE.md).

Commit message:

remove outdated banner from kfserving (#2106)
* update kfserving docs

* make more formal

content/en/docs/components/serving/kfserving.md, after:

+++
title = "KFServing"
description = "Model serving using KFServing"
weight = 2
                    
+++

{{% beta-status 
  feedbacklink="https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/issues" %}}

KFServing enables serverless inferencing on Kubernetes and provides performant, high abstraction interfaces for common machine learning (ML) frameworks like TensorFlow, XGBoost, scikit-learn, PyTorch, and ONNX to solve production model serving use cases.

You can use KFServing to do the following:

* Provide a Kubernetes [Custom Resource Definition](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/) for serving ML models on arbitrary frameworks.

* Encapsulate the complexity of autoscaling, networking, health checking, and server configuration to bring cutting edge serving features like GPU autoscaling, scale to zero, and canary rollouts to your ML deployments.

* Enable a simple, pluggable, and complete story for your production ML inference server by providing prediction, pre-processing, post-processing and explainability out of the box.

Our strong community contributions help KFServing to grow. We have a Technical Steering Committee driven by Google, IBM, Microsoft, Seldon, and Bloomberg. [Browse the KFServing GitHub repo](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving) to give us feedback!

## Install with Kubeflow
KFServing works with Kubeflow 1.1. Kustomize installation files are [located in the manifests repo](https://github.com/kubeflow/manifests/tree/master/kfserving).
See examples running KFServing on [Istio/Dex](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/istio-dex). For installation on major cloud providers with Kubeflow, please follow their installation docs. 

Kubeflow 1.1 includes KFServing v0.3, where the focus has been on providing more stability by doing a major move to KNative v1 APIs. Additionally, we added GPU support for PyTorch model servers, and pickled model format support for SKLearn. There were other enhancements to routing, payload logging, including bug fixes etc., details of which can be found [here](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/releases/tag/v0.3.0).

<img src="../kfserving.png" alt="KFServing">

## Examples

### Deploy models with out-of-the-box model servers
* [TensorFlow](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/tensorflow)
* [PyTorch](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/pytorch)
* [XGBoost](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/xgboost)
* [Scikit-Learn](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/sklearn)
* [ONNXRuntime](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/onnx)

### Deploy models with custom model servers
* [Custom](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/custom)
* [BentoML](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/bentoml)

### Deploy models on GPU
* [GPU](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/accelerators)
* [Nvidia Triton Inference Server](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/triton)

### Autoscaling and Rollouts
* [Autoscaling](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/autoscaling)
* [Canary Rollout](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/rollouts)

### Model explainability and outlier detection
* [Explainability](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/explanation/alibi)
* [OutlierDetection](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/outlier-detection/alibi-detect/cifar10)

### Integrations
* [Transformer](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/transformer/image_transformer)
* [Kafka](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/kafka)
* [Pipelines](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/pipelines)
* [Request/Response logging](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/logger)

### Model Storages
* [Azure](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/azure)
* [S3](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/s3)
* [On-prem cluster](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/pvc)

### Sample notebooks
* [SDK client](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/blob/master/docs/samples/client/kfserving_sdk_sample.ipynb)
* [Transformer (pre/post processing)](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/blob/master/docs/samples/transformer/image_transformer/kfserving_sdk_transformer.ipynb)
* [ONNX](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/blob/master/docs/samples/onnx/mosaic-onnx.ipynb)

We frequently add examples to our [GitHub repo](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/).

## Learn more
* Join our [working group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kfserving) for meeting invitations and discussion.
* [Read the docs](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs).
* [API docs](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/apis/README.md).
* [Debugging guide](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/blob/master/docs/KFSERVING_DEBUG_GUIDE.md)
* [Roadmap](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/ROADMAP.md).
* [KFServing 101 slides](https://drive.google.com/file/d/16oqz6dhY5BR0u74pi9mDThU97Np__AFb/view).
* [Kubecon Introducing KFServing](https://kccncna19.sched.com/event/UaZo/introducing-kfserving-serverless-model-serving-on-kubernetes-ellis-bigelow-google-dan-sun-bloomberg)
* [Kubecon Advanced KFServing](https://kccncna19.sched.com/event/UaVw/advanced-model-inferencing-leveraging-knative-istio-and-kubeflow-serving-animesh-singh-ibm-clive-cox-seldon)
* [Nvidia GTC Accelerate and Autoscale Deep Learning Inference on GPUs](https://developer.nvidia.com/gtc/2020/video/s22459-vid)

## Standalone KFServing
### Install Knative/Istio
Knative Serving (v0.11.2 +) and Istio (v1.1.7+), Cert Manager(v0.12.0+) should be available on your Kubernetes cluster.
Please see more details for installing the prerequisites [here](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving#prerequisites)

### KFServing installation
Once you meet the above prerequsites KFServing can be [installed standalone](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving#standalone-kfserving-installation). See [here](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/install) for other available releases.

### Monitoring
* [Install Metrics, Logging and Tracing](https://knative.dev/docs/serving/installing-logging-metrics-traces/)
* [Accessing metrics](https://knative.dev/docs/serving/accessing-metrics/)
* [Accessing logs](https://knative.dev/docs/serving/accessing-logs/)
* [Accessing traces](https://knative.dev/docs/serving/accessing-traces/)
* [Debugging performance issue](https://knative.dev/docs/serving/debugging-performance-issues/)

## Use SDK
1. Install the SDK.
    ```
    pip install kfserving
    ```
1. [Follow the example](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/blob/master/docs/samples/client/kfserving_sdk_sample.ipynb) to use the KFServing SDK to create, patch, roll out, and delete a KFServing instance.

## Contribute
* [Developer guide](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/DEVELOPER_GUIDE.md).
