content/en/docs/components/serving/overview.md, before:

+++
title = "Overview"
description = "Model serving overview"
weight = 1
+++

Kubeflow supports two model serving systems that allow multi-framework model 
serving: *KFServing* and *Seldon Core*. Alternatively, you can use a
standalone model serving system. This page gives an overview of the options, so
that you can choose the framework that best supports your model serving 
requirements.

## Multi-framework serving with KFServing or Seldon Core

KFServing and Seldon Core are both open source systems that allow 
multi-framework model serving. The following table compares 
KFServing and Seldon Core. A check mark (**&check;**) indicates that the system
(KFServing or Seldon Core) supports the feature specified in that row.

<div class="table-responsive">
  <table class="table table-bordered">
    <thead class="thead-light">
      <tr>
        <th>Feature</th>
        <th>Sub-feature</th>
        <th>KFServing</th>
        <th>Seldon Core</th>
      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td>Framework</td>
        <td>TensorFlow</td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/tensorflow">sample</a></td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://docs.seldon.io/projects/seldon-core/en/latest/servers/tensorflow.html">docs</a></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td></td>
        <td>XGBoost</td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/xgboost">sample</a></td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://docs.seldon.io/projects/seldon-core/en/latest/servers/xgboost.html">docs</a></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td></td>
        <td>scikit-learn</td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/sklearn">sample</a></td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://docs.seldon.io/projects/seldon-core/en/latest/servers/sklearn.html">docs</a></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td></td>
        <td>NVIDIA Triton Inference Server</td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/triton">sample</a></td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://docs.seldon.io/projects/seldon-core/en/latest/examples/nvidia_mnist.html">docs</a></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td></td>
        <td>ONNX</td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/onnx">sample</a></td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td></td>
        <td>PyTorch</td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/pytorch">sample</a></td>
        <td><b>&check;</b></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Graph</td>
        <td>Transformers</td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/blob/master/docs/samples/transformer/image_transformer/kfserving_sdk_transformer.ipynb">sample</a></td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://docs.seldon.io/projects/seldon-core/en/latest/examples/transformer_spam_model.html">docs</a></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td></td>
        <td>Combiners</td>
        <td>Roadmap</td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://docs.seldon.io/projects/seldon-core/en/latest/examples/openvino_ensemble.html">sample</a></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td></td>
        <td>Routers including <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multi-armed_bandit">MAB</a></td>
        <td>Roadmap</td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://docs.seldon.io/projects/seldon-core/en/latest/analytics/routers.html">docs</a></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Analytics</td>
        <td>Explanations</td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/explanation/alibi">sample</a></td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://docs.seldon.io/projects/seldon-core/en/latest/analytics/explainers.html">docs</a></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Scaling</td>
        <td>Knative</td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/autoscaling">sample</a></td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td></td>
        <td>GPU AutoScaling</td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/autoscaling">sample</a></td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td></td>
        <td>HPA</td>
        <td><b>&check;</b></td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://docs.seldon.io/projects/seldon-core/en/latest/graph/scaling.html#autoscaling-seldon-deployments">docs</a></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Custom</td>
        <td>Container</td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/custom">sample</a></td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://docs.seldon.io/projects/seldon-core/en/latest/wrappers/language_wrappers.html">docs</a></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td></td>
        <td>Language Wrappers</td>
        <td></td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://docs.seldon.io/projects/seldon-core/en/latest/python/index.html">Python</a>, <a href="https://docs.seldon.io/projects/seldon-core/en/latest/java/README.html">Java</a>, <a href="https://docs.seldon.io/projects/seldon-core/en/latest/R/README.html">R</a></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td></td>
        <td>Multi-Container</td>
        <td></td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://docs.seldon.io/projects/seldon-core/en/latest/graph/inference-graph.html">docs</a></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Rollout</td>
        <td>Canary</td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/rollouts">sample</a></td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://docs.seldon.io/projects/seldon-core/en/latest/examples/istio_canary.html">docs</a></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td></td>
        <td>Shadow</td>
        <td></td>
        <td><b>&check;</b></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Istio</td>
        <td></td>
        <td><b>&check;</b></td>
        <td><b>&check;</b></td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>
 
Notes:

   * KFServing and Seldon Core share some technical features, including 
     explainability (using [Seldon Alibi 
     Explain](https://github.com/SeldonIO/alibi)) and payload logging, as well 
     as other areas.
   * A commercial product, 
     [Seldon Deploy](https://www.seldon.io/tech/products/deploy/), supports both 
     KFServing and Seldon in production.
   * KFServing is part of the Kubeflow project ecosystem. Seldon Core is an
     external project supported within Kubeflow.

Further information:

 * KFServing:
   * [Kubeflow documentation](/docs/components/serving/kfserving/)
   * [GitHub repository](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving)
   * [Community](/docs/about/community/)
 * Seldon Core
   * [Kubeflow documentation](/docs/components/serving/seldon/)
   * [Seldon Core documentation](https://docs.seldon.io/projects/seldon-core/en/latest/)
   * [GitHub repository](https://github.com/SeldonIO/seldon-core)
   * [Community](https://docs.seldon.io/projects/seldon-core/en/latest/developer/community.html)   

## TensorFlow Serving

For TensorFlow models you can use TensorFlow Serving for 
[real-time prediction](/docs/components/serving/tfserving_new).
However, if you plan to use multiple frameworks, you should consider KFServing
or Seldon Core as described above.

## NVIDIA Triton Inference Server

NVIDIA Triton Inference Server is a REST and GRPC service for deep-learning
inferencing of TensorRT, TensorFlow, Pytorch, ONNX and Caffe2 models. The server is
optimized to deploy machine learning algorithms on both GPUs and
CPUs at scale. Triton Inference Server was previously known as TensorRT Inference Server.

You can use NVIDIA Triton Inference Server as a 
[standalone system](/docs/components/serving/tritoninferenceserver),
but you should consider KFServing as described above. KFServing includes support 
for NVIDIA Triton Inference Server.

## BentoML

[BentoML](https://bentoml.org) is an open-source platform for high-performance ML model
serving. It makes building production API endpoint for your ML model easy and supports
all major machine learning training frameworks, including Tensorflow, Keras, PyTorch,
XGBoost, scikit-learn and etc.

BentoML comes with a high-performance API model server with adaptive micro-batching
support, which achieves the advantage of batch processing in online serving. It also
provides model management and model deployment functionality, giving ML teams an
end-to-end model serving workflow, with DevOps best practices baked in.

   * [BentoML guide for Kubeflow](/docs/components/serving/bentoml)
   * [BentoML GitHub repository](https://github.com/bentoml/BentoML)
   * [BentoML documentation](https://docs.bentoml.org)
   * [Quick start guide](https://docs.bentoml.org/en/latest/quickstart.html)
   * [Community](https://join.slack.com/t/bentoml/shared_invite/enQtNjcyMTY3MjE4NTgzLTU3ZDc1MWM5MzQxMWQxMzJiNTc1MTJmMzYzMTYwMjQ0OGEwNDFmZDkzYWQxNzgxYWNhNjAxZjk4MzI4OGY1Yjg)

Commit message:

Added outdated banner to non-index docs unchanged in last 30d (#2072)
This was originally PR #2066. @RFMVasconcelos is out this week and
the PR is blocked by a merge conflict so I rebased it in order
to get it merged.

Related to: #1984

Author:    jlewi <jeremy@lewi.us>

content/en/docs/components/serving/overview.md, after:

+++
title = "Overview"
description = "Model serving overview"
weight = 1
                    
+++
{{% alert title="Out of date" color="warning" %}}
This guide contains outdated information pertaining to Kubeflow 1.0. This guide
needs to be updated for Kubeflow 1.1.
{{% /alert %}}

Kubeflow supports two model serving systems that allow multi-framework model 
serving: *KFServing* and *Seldon Core*. Alternatively, you can use a
standalone model serving system. This page gives an overview of the options, so
that you can choose the framework that best supports your model serving 
requirements.

## Multi-framework serving with KFServing or Seldon Core

KFServing and Seldon Core are both open source systems that allow 
multi-framework model serving. The following table compares 
KFServing and Seldon Core. A check mark (**&check;**) indicates that the system
(KFServing or Seldon Core) supports the feature specified in that row.

<div class="table-responsive">
  <table class="table table-bordered">
    <thead class="thead-light">
      <tr>
        <th>Feature</th>
        <th>Sub-feature</th>
        <th>KFServing</th>
        <th>Seldon Core</th>
      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td>Framework</td>
        <td>TensorFlow</td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/tensorflow">sample</a></td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://docs.seldon.io/projects/seldon-core/en/latest/servers/tensorflow.html">docs</a></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td></td>
        <td>XGBoost</td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/xgboost">sample</a></td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://docs.seldon.io/projects/seldon-core/en/latest/servers/xgboost.html">docs</a></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td></td>
        <td>scikit-learn</td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/sklearn">sample</a></td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://docs.seldon.io/projects/seldon-core/en/latest/servers/sklearn.html">docs</a></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td></td>
        <td>NVIDIA Triton Inference Server</td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/triton">sample</a></td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://docs.seldon.io/projects/seldon-core/en/latest/examples/nvidia_mnist.html">docs</a></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td></td>
        <td>ONNX</td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/onnx">sample</a></td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td></td>
        <td>PyTorch</td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/pytorch">sample</a></td>
        <td><b>&check;</b></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Graph</td>
        <td>Transformers</td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/blob/master/docs/samples/transformer/image_transformer/kfserving_sdk_transformer.ipynb">sample</a></td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://docs.seldon.io/projects/seldon-core/en/latest/examples/transformer_spam_model.html">docs</a></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td></td>
        <td>Combiners</td>
        <td>Roadmap</td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://docs.seldon.io/projects/seldon-core/en/latest/examples/openvino_ensemble.html">sample</a></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td></td>
        <td>Routers including <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multi-armed_bandit">MAB</a></td>
        <td>Roadmap</td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://docs.seldon.io/projects/seldon-core/en/latest/analytics/routers.html">docs</a></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Analytics</td>
        <td>Explanations</td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/explanation/alibi">sample</a></td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://docs.seldon.io/projects/seldon-core/en/latest/analytics/explainers.html">docs</a></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Scaling</td>
        <td>Knative</td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/autoscaling">sample</a></td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td></td>
        <td>GPU AutoScaling</td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/autoscaling">sample</a></td>
        <td></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td></td>
        <td>HPA</td>
        <td><b>&check;</b></td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://docs.seldon.io/projects/seldon-core/en/latest/graph/scaling.html#autoscaling-seldon-deployments">docs</a></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Custom</td>
        <td>Container</td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/custom">sample</a></td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://docs.seldon.io/projects/seldon-core/en/latest/wrappers/language_wrappers.html">docs</a></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td></td>
        <td>Language Wrappers</td>
        <td></td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://docs.seldon.io/projects/seldon-core/en/latest/python/index.html">Python</a>, <a href="https://docs.seldon.io/projects/seldon-core/en/latest/java/README.html">Java</a>, <a href="https://docs.seldon.io/projects/seldon-core/en/latest/R/README.html">R</a></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td></td>
        <td>Multi-Container</td>
        <td></td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://docs.seldon.io/projects/seldon-core/en/latest/graph/inference-graph.html">docs</a></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Rollout</td>
        <td>Canary</td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving/tree/master/docs/samples/rollouts">sample</a></td>
        <td><b>&check;</b> <a href="https://docs.seldon.io/projects/seldon-core/en/latest/examples/istio_canary.html">docs</a></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td></td>
        <td>Shadow</td>
        <td></td>
        <td><b>&check;</b></td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Istio</td>
        <td></td>
        <td><b>&check;</b></td>
        <td><b>&check;</b></td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>
 
Notes:

   * KFServing and Seldon Core share some technical features, including 
     explainability (using [Seldon Alibi 
     Explain](https://github.com/SeldonIO/alibi)) and payload logging, as well 
     as other areas.
   * A commercial product, 
     [Seldon Deploy](https://www.seldon.io/tech/products/deploy/), supports both 
     KFServing and Seldon in production.
   * KFServing is part of the Kubeflow project ecosystem. Seldon Core is an
     external project supported within Kubeflow.

Further information:

 * KFServing:
   * [Kubeflow documentation](/docs/components/serving/kfserving/)
   * [GitHub repository](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfserving)
   * [Community](/docs/about/community/)
 * Seldon Core
   * [Kubeflow documentation](/docs/components/serving/seldon/)
   * [Seldon Core documentation](https://docs.seldon.io/projects/seldon-core/en/latest/)
   * [GitHub repository](https://github.com/SeldonIO/seldon-core)
   * [Community](https://docs.seldon.io/projects/seldon-core/en/latest/developer/community.html)   

## TensorFlow Serving

For TensorFlow models you can use TensorFlow Serving for 
[real-time prediction](/docs/components/serving/tfserving_new).
However, if you plan to use multiple frameworks, you should consider KFServing
or Seldon Core as described above.

## NVIDIA Triton Inference Server

NVIDIA Triton Inference Server is a REST and GRPC service for deep-learning
inferencing of TensorRT, TensorFlow, Pytorch, ONNX and Caffe2 models. The server is
optimized to deploy machine learning algorithms on both GPUs and
CPUs at scale. Triton Inference Server was previously known as TensorRT Inference Server.

You can use NVIDIA Triton Inference Server as a 
[standalone system](/docs/components/serving/tritoninferenceserver),
but you should consider KFServing as described above. KFServing includes support 
for NVIDIA Triton Inference Server.

## BentoML

[BentoML](https://bentoml.org) is an open-source platform for high-performance ML model
serving. It makes building production API endpoint for your ML model easy and supports
all major machine learning training frameworks, including Tensorflow, Keras, PyTorch,
XGBoost, scikit-learn and etc.

BentoML comes with a high-performance API model server with adaptive micro-batching
support, which achieves the advantage of batch processing in online serving. It also
provides model management and model deployment functionality, giving ML teams an
end-to-end model serving workflow, with DevOps best practices baked in.

   * [BentoML guide for Kubeflow](/docs/components/serving/bentoml)
   * [BentoML GitHub repository](https://github.com/bentoml/BentoML)
   * [BentoML documentation](https://docs.bentoml.org)
   * [Quick start guide](https://docs.bentoml.org/en/latest/quickstart.html)
   * [Community](https://join.slack.com/t/bentoml/shared_invite/enQtNjcyMTY3MjE4NTgzLTU3ZDc1MWM5MzQxMWQxMzJiNTc1MTJmMzYzMTYwMjQ0OGEwNDFmZDkzYWQxNzgxYWNhNjAxZjk4MzI4OGY1Yjg)
