content/docs/gke/deploy/project-setup.md, before:

+++
title = "Set up a GCP Project"
description = "Creating a Google Cloud Platform (GCP) project for your Kubeflow deployment"
weight = 1
+++

Follow these steps to set up a GCP account and project if you don't already
have one:

1. Select or create a project on the 
  [GCP Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloud-resource-manager).

1. Make sure that billing is enabled for your project. See the guide to
  [modifying a project's billing 
  settings](https://cloud.google.com/billing/docs/how-to/modify-project).

1. Go to the following pages on the GCP Console and ensure that the 
  specified APIs are enabled on your GCP account:

  * [Compute Engine API](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/library/compute.googleapis.com)
  * [Kubernetes Engine API](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/library/container.googleapis.com)
  * [Identity and Access Management (IAM) API](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/library/iam.googleapis.com)
  * [Deployment Manager API](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/library/deploymentmanager.googleapis.com)

1. Check to see if you are eligible for the 
  [GCP Free Tier](https://cloud.google.com/free/docs/gcp-free-tier), which gives
  you free resources to try GCP services. The guide describes:

  * the GCP services which are always free, and
  * a 12-month trial period with $300 credit that you can use with any GCP 
    services.

1. Read the GCP guide to [resource quotas](https://cloud.google.com/compute/quotas)
  to understand the quotas on resource usage that Compute Engine enforces, and 
  to learn how to check your quota and how to request an increase in quota.

You do not need a running GKE cluster. The deployment process will create a
cluster for you.

## Next steps

* [Set up an OAuth credential](/docs/gke/deploy/oauth-setup) if you want to use 
  [Cloud Identity-Aware Proxy (Cloud IAP)](https://cloud.google.com/iap/docs/).
  Cloud IAP is recommended for production deployments or deployments with access 
  to sensitive data. You can skip this step if you want to test Kubeflow
  in a non-production environment.
* Choose one of the following ways to deploy Kubeflow:

  * [Using the UI](/docs/gke/deploy/deploy-ui). This option provides a simple
    way to deploy Kubeflow.
  * [Using the CLI](/docs/gke/deploy/deploy-cli). This option provides more
    control over the deployment process.

Commit message:

add owner role requirement in GCP project setup (#1016)

content/docs/gke/deploy/project-setup.md, after:

+++
title = "Set up a GCP Project"
description = "Creating a Google Cloud Platform (GCP) project for your Kubeflow deployment"
weight = 1
+++

Follow these steps to set up a GCP account and project if you don't already
have one:

1. Select or create a project on the 
  [GCP Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloud-resource-manager).
  The deployment process creates various Service Accounts with
  appropriate roles in order to enable seamless integration with
  GCP services. This requires that the user has 
  [owner role](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/understanding-roles#primitive_role_definitions)
  for the project in order to deploy Kubeflow.

1. Make sure that billing is enabled for your project. See the guide to
  [modifying a project's billing 
  settings](https://cloud.google.com/billing/docs/how-to/modify-project).

1. Go to the following pages on the GCP Console and ensure that the 
  specified APIs are enabled on your GCP account:

  * [Compute Engine API](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/library/compute.googleapis.com)
  * [Kubernetes Engine API](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/library/container.googleapis.com)
  * [Identity and Access Management (IAM) API](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/library/iam.googleapis.com)
  * [Deployment Manager API](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/library/deploymentmanager.googleapis.com)

1. Check to see if you are eligible for the 
  [GCP Free Tier](https://cloud.google.com/free/docs/gcp-free-tier), which gives
  you free resources to try GCP services. The guide describes:

  * the GCP services which are always free, and
  * a 12-month trial period with $300 credit that you can use with any GCP 
    services.

1. Read the GCP guide to [resource quotas](https://cloud.google.com/compute/quotas)
  to understand the quotas on resource usage that Compute Engine enforces, and 
  to learn how to check your quota and how to request an increase in quota.

You do not need a running GKE cluster. The deployment process will create a
cluster for you.

## Next steps

* [Set up an OAuth credential](/docs/gke/deploy/oauth-setup) if you want to use 
  [Cloud Identity-Aware Proxy (Cloud IAP)](https://cloud.google.com/iap/docs/).
  Cloud IAP is recommended for production deployments or deployments with access 
  to sensitive data. You can skip this step if you want to test Kubeflow
  in a non-production environment.
* Choose one of the following ways to deploy Kubeflow:

  * [Using the UI](/docs/gke/deploy/deploy-ui). This option provides a simple
    way to deploy Kubeflow.
  * [Using the CLI](/docs/gke/deploy/deploy-cli). This option provides more
    control over the deployment process.
