content/docs/started/workstation/getting-started-linux.md, before:

+++
title = "Kubeflow on Linux"
description = "Install Kubeflow on Linux"
weight = 2
+++

For Linux systems you have options for servers (physical or virtual) and desktops.
The server options apply to the desktop as well.

## Linux server

For linux servers you can install Kubeflow natively. This is perfect for
linux hosts and virtual machines, such as VMs in OpenStack, VMware or public clouds like
GCP, AWS and Azure.

### MicroK8s

[MicroK8s](https://microk8s.io) runs natively on most Linux distributions. It requires
[snapd](https://snapcraft.io/docs/getting-started), which is pre-installed on Ubuntu
and Ubuntu derivative operating systems.

1. Install MicroK8s - `snap install microk8s --classic`
2. Follow the getting started guide for Kubeflow [here](https://www.kubeflow.org/docs/other-guides/virtual-dev/getting-started-multipass/).

## Linux desktop

### Kubeflow appliance

A Kubeflow appliance is a virtual machine that has Kubeflow already installed. Once the
necessary supporting software is installed no further installation steps are required.

#### MiniKF

MiniKF is a predefined virtual machine that installs onto VirtualBox through Vagrant.
The only following applications are required to use MiniKF:

- Install [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html)
- Install [Virtual Box](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads)

The full set of instructions are available on the
[MiniKF getting started](/docs/other-guides/virtual-dev/getting-started-minikf/) page.

### Linux appliance

A Linux appliance is a virtual machine that holds the linux operating system. From there
you have complete choice over Kubernetes and Kubeflow, which offers the greatest degree
of flexibility. You only need to install a single application to follow this path:

- Install [Multipass](https://multipass.run/#install)

The instructions on [Multipass and MicroK8s getting started](/docs/other-guides/virtual-dev/getting-started-multipass/)
page will complete this path.

### Kubernetes appliance

Similar to the Kubeflow appliance, the Kubernetes appliance is a virtual machine has a
Kubernetes cluster already installed. After starting the virtual machine you will need
to install Kubeflow. This option gives you full control over your Kubeflow setup.

#### Minikube

Minikube runs a simple, single-node Kubernetes cluster inside a virtual machine (VM).
You can choose amongst a couple of hypervisor applications. Similar to the Kubeflow
appliance, you only need to install a couple of applications, and then install Kubeflow:

- Install a Hypervisor (*one of the following*)
  - Install [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html)
  - Install [VMware Fusion](https://www.vmware.com/products/fusion)
- Install [Minikube](https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube/releases)

The full set of instructions are available on the
[Minikube getting started](/docs/other-guides/virtual-dev/getting-started-minikube/) page.

Commit message:

Updating getting-started-linux.md
pointing to the updated instructions

content/docs/started/workstation/getting-started-linux.md, after:

+++
title = "Kubeflow on Linux"
description = "Install Kubeflow on Linux"
weight = 2
+++

For Linux systems you have options for servers (physical or virtual) and desktops.
The server options apply to the desktop as well.

## Linux server

For linux servers you can install Kubeflow natively. This is perfect for
linux hosts and virtual machines, such as VMs in OpenStack, VMware or public clouds like
GCP, AWS and Azure.

### MicroK8s

[MicroK8s](https://microk8s.io) runs natively on most Linux distributions. It requires
[snapd](https://snapcraft.io/docs/getting-started), which is pre-installed on Ubuntu
and Ubuntu derivative operating systems.

Follow the installation guide for [Kubeflow with MicroK8s](/docs/other-guides/virtual-dev/getting-started-multipass/) to set up MicroK8s and enable Kubeflow.

## Linux desktop

### Kubeflow appliance

A Kubeflow appliance is a virtual machine that has Kubeflow already installed. Once the
necessary supporting software is installed no further installation steps are required.

#### MiniKF

MiniKF is a predefined virtual machine that installs onto VirtualBox through Vagrant.
The only following applications are required to use MiniKF:

- Install [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html)
- Install [Virtual Box](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads)

The full set of instructions are available on the
[MiniKF getting started](/docs/other-guides/virtual-dev/getting-started-minikf/) page.

### Linux appliance

A Linux appliance is a virtual machine that holds the linux operating system. From there
you have complete choice over Kubernetes and Kubeflow, which offers the greatest degree
of flexibility. You only need to install a single application to follow this path:

- Install [Multipass](https://multipass.run/#install)

The instructions on [Multipass and MicroK8s getting started](/docs/other-guides/virtual-dev/getting-started-multipass/)
page will complete this path.

### Kubernetes appliance

Similar to the Kubeflow appliance, the Kubernetes appliance is a virtual machine has a
Kubernetes cluster already installed. After starting the virtual machine you will need
to install Kubeflow. This option gives you full control over your Kubeflow setup.

#### Minikube

Minikube runs a simple, single-node Kubernetes cluster inside a virtual machine (VM).
You can choose amongst a couple of hypervisor applications. Similar to the Kubeflow
appliance, you only need to install a couple of applications, and then install Kubeflow:

- Install a Hypervisor (*one of the following*)
  - Install [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html)
  - Install [VMware Fusion](https://www.vmware.com/products/fusion)
- Install [Minikube](https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube/releases)

The full set of instructions are available on the
[Minikube getting started](/docs/other-guides/virtual-dev/getting-started-minikube/) page.
